# 2023-09-18 → 2023-09-25

1. [The World’s Oldest Ultramarathon Runner Is Racing against Death](https://thewalrus.ca/worlds-oldest-ultramarathon-runner/) - I'm a former distance runner. I still get tingles down my spine reading stories like this. Running is the ultimate fight against self and to see someone in the ring this late is nothing short of inspiring.

> Time stalks everyone, but when it catches up with a professional athlete, it can be brutal to watch. It’s why so many of the greatest names in sport often fade from the spotlight once they leave the field, to age out of sight.

2. [In Search of Virgil Abloh](https://www.gq.com/story/in-search-of-virgil-abloh) - One of my favorite artists, Burna Boy, references Virgil Abloh often. After one of my many [Genius](https://genius.com/) rabbit holes, I decided it was time to learn about Abloh. The more I learn, the more I'm impressed. He's nothing short of a polymath with the echoes of his life reverberating across the world.

> V “had a very concrete connection to utopia,” Obrist explains. “What he meant by utopia is ‘something is missing,’ as he would say. I always had the feeling that he was also interested in producing and making things happen that were missing.”

3. [North Korea Nuclear Overview](https://www.nti.org/analysis/articles/north-korea-nuclear/) - It is easy to clown North Korea, but I'm unconvinced it is wise to do so. As an American, my default posture to countries like North Korea is an arrogant skepticism. I'm working to replace my cockiness with curios wariness and this article is a step in the right direction.

> North Korea (aka the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea or DPRK) is the only country to have withdrawn from the Treaty on the Nonproliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) to pursue a nuclear weapons program and possesses an increasingly sophisticated nuclear arsenal.

4. [My Programming Language Odyssey](https://brainbaking.com/post/2022/05/my-programming-language-odyssey/) - I love a technical article with life to it. I will be referencing this one if I ever write another technical article. There’s nothing worse than dry writing. I might give technical writing a shot after reading this. Yet more inspiration from this week!

> Eli produced an interesting tale of his programming language odyssey today where he tried to recreate his programming language journey. I found it highly entertaining to read precisely because it’s personal—and, for a change, even though the word “programming” in the title seems to emit some technicality, it is distinctively not a technical article.

5. [Strategies for Work-Life Balance](https://getmatter.com/email/28937337/?token=28937337%3A8FSdFszEP9Q1O75E_GqVYxOsnow) - As I strive to find meaning in my life, I'm noticing how bad I am at growing my relationships. I am great at maintenance, but growth is tough for me. I realize that growth will require me putting my relationships first. A real challenge for someone rather avoidant and risk averse like me, but a challenge I no longer wish to avoid.

> Putting the non-work commitments in his calendar first, knowing that work will always have a tendency to fill in the gaps

## Media I’m Consuming

I’m hoping to make this a little more free flowing. I’m recognizing that more and more, the content I consume is far more diverse than just books. I’m watching more TV and movies, using some of the same strategies I used to read more books. I watch multiple things at a time and I quit anything I don’t love. As a result, I watch more than I do before and get way more out of it.

Here’s a little sampler of the media I’m consuming this week:

- Dark (German Stranger Things)
- New Amsterdam (Touching Version of Grey’s Anatomy)
- Babel (Around the World in 20 Languages)
- Korean Script Hacking (Lightning Fast Literacy)

On the language learning front, I’m loving the Script Hacking Book series. Once I wrap up the Korean Script, I’ll be moving on to Hindi or Arabic. I will be learning scripts separate from the language in the hopes that I can remember the script when it comes time to learn how to speak a language. In the meantime, I’ll be picking up languages based on how easy they are to learn and practice. For now, that’s Italian the language of my ancestors and a few friends. I’ll start learning that in earnest soon using Duolingo.

## Idea of the Week: The Asymmetry of Kindness

Kindness, like a stock option, is asymmetric. I'm still teasing out what this means. I started thinking about the concept while reading [A Letter to My Newborn Daughter](https://moretothat.com/a-letter-to-my-newborn-daughter/). In it, the author defines kindness as, "the ability to trade personal gain for mutual trust." The definition of a fuzzy concept like kindness got me thinking, "What are the properties of kindness?"

### Kindness is Asymmetric

To demonstrate that kindness is asymmetric, I’m going to start by imagining it wasn’t. What if life only gave what it got? What if, like in the [Good Place](https://lastweekilearned.com/the-good-place.html), there was a score? In this scenario, there are no random acts of kindness. Such a thing is unimaginable in a world of symmetric kindness. In a world of symmetric kindness, we would see more trades than relationships.

While my claim in general is that kindness is asymmetric, we do know symmetric kindness when we see it. Symmetric kindness is rampant in the City of Angels, where everyone is in “the business.” Networking at its worst is a form of symmetric kindness. I give you this and you give me that.

Yet at its best and most authentic, kindness is asymmetric. I first learned about asymmetry as a concept while reading the Black Swan by Nassim Taleb. Today I want to apply the concept to kindness.

The way the author frames kindness leads me to think of it as an asymmetric investment. The most asymmetric of all investments is insurance. You pay a little now in exchange for protection from a Black Swan.

Kindness is insurance. You trade a little bit of your time and thought for the option to redeem goodwill later. The trade of kindness is what builds trust. Once I used that framing, the rest clicked into place. Kindness is asymmetric. You can invest a little kindness someone once and it can return dividends for the rest of your time here.

### Kindness is Cheap

Unlike other investments though, kindness is not necessarily costly. Investing in startups and the like often requires a certain activation energy ($200k worth). Kindness, like running, requires little equipment. You can be kind anywhere, anytime.

Thankfully, no corporation controls kindness. There is no charge for it. At it's simplest, kindness costs a little time and a little thought. That's all.

## The Kindness Strategy

If kindness is cheap and asymmetric, the best strategy is to get after it. Spread the kindness around. All you stand to lose is time. And who knows what you stand to gain.

