# 2023-11-28 → 2023-12-02

1. [If it sounds like Sci-Fi, It Probably Is](https://journal.getabstract.com/en/2023/08/03/if-it-sounds-like-sci-fi-it-probably-is/) - So far this is my North Star for the current capabilities and limitations of large language models. Emily Bender is a blue flame thinker, to steal Scott Galloway’s term. If I could recommend one article to read about AI, this would be it.

> There’s a tweet I’ve seen various people put out, which is something like, you know, AI was supposed to do all the boring stuff so that we could live a life of leisure and write poetry and paint. So why are we creating systems to automate that kind of work? What’s that for?

2. [How to have a Money Date](https://getmatter.com/email/35483246/?token=35483246%3AfsGUfD-vfSpv0S2mFB-xalElBmA) - While this is targeted to couples, I’ll be using this to guide my monthly money retrospectives. There are great questions here and the mindset shift inherent in everything Ramit Sethi does is incredible. Changed the way I see money.

> Too often, couples tell me they only talk about money when they’re discussing logistics like which account they should use. Or worse, they only talk about money when something goes wrong. I believe money is a JOY to talk about. Money lets me be more adventurous, spontaneous, and generous.

3. [It Will Never Be a Good Time to Buy a House](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2023/11/buying-house-market-shortage/676088/) - From good money news to bad money news. The housing shortage is going to be persistent and painful. We will need to adaptive our behavior in the short term and adapt our policies in the long term. [Start here](https://www.strongtowns.org/journal/2018/6/6/toward-dynamic-zoning-codes) for some great ideas about how to adapt our policies.

> This is the uncomfortable equilibrium the market finds itself in today. Nobody’s selling because nobody’s buying. Nobody’s buying because nobody’s selling. Nobody can afford to sell. Nobody can afford to buy.

4. [My Recent Divorce, and/or Dior Homme Intense](https://getmatter.com/email/7468793/?token=7468793%3AIJ8-KX7YcQxgG3VSJMcrTNERnJs) - When I first read this article, I was happily engaged. I found it to be vapid and shallow. 6 months post breakup, I reread this with new eyes. First, this guy can write, flat out. No matter the content, he is a joy to read. Second, he’s an alluring mix of honest and unlikeable. Fascinating perspective.

> But, clearly, this is not true—our identity is distributed in the people around us, our routines and possessions, as much as it is held in a bone cage perched upon the spine.

5. [Declared Extinct, The Yaghan Rise in the Land of Fire](https://hakaimagazine.com/features/declared-dead-the-yaghan-rise-in-the-land-of-fire/?utm_source=pocket&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=pockethits&cta=1&src=ph) - I am painfully unaware of indigenous people in South America. I found this story captivating and informative all at once. A must read.

> Like the Palawa in Tasmania, the Sinixt in Canada, and the Karankawa in the United States, the Yaghan have the dubious distinction of coming back from the dead, their extinction declared by outsiders—Europeans and their descendants—for over a century.

## Idea of the Week: Facing the Wrong Direction

Today I looked for the sunrise and didn’t find it. I drove to a friend’s house with a view, woke up early, and got all ready to be wowed. As I peeked out the window to find a dull brightness, the obvious hit me. The sun does not rise on the water on the West Coast. There will never be an ocean sunrise to see here. I checked all the boxes, except the most important one.

I spend a lot of my time spinning my wheels, optimizing for the wrong variables. I look up the time of the sunrise but don’t check where it rises from. I’m working to be smarter, but it’s hard. These things aren’t obvious, at least to me.

### Optimizing for the Wrong Variables

I’m reading The Phoenix Project, a fictional book about a company in hot water. In it, a board member points out that fixing anything other than a bottleneck does nothing. You can get all the little details right, but if you are facing the wrong direction, you will go nowhere fast. The same principle applies to my sunrise shenanigans. I could’ve done all the prep I wanted, but nothing would change my facing the wrong way.

How do you learn to ask the right questions? How do you learn to find the sunrise? I’m not sure yet. Decisive by Dan and Chip Heath is pointing me in the right direction. In it, they suggest the obvious solution of asking others who’ve done the same. So you ask your friend who is up early or loves the sun.

I did not think to do that, mainly because none of my friends appear to care about sunrises. I don’t often care. But once in a blue moon I get a hankering to see the golden ball that keeps me warm. I’m not sure if I’m trying to give thanks or say hi. There is no real purpose to my morning rise.

### The Power of the Unexpected

When I do manage to see the sunrise, it is always by accident. I stay up so late that I hear the birds chirping and see the soft glow melt through the sky. I fall asleep at 7 PM and wake at 5, unable to find my bed again.

A few months ago, I woke up so early I was guaranteed to see the sunrise. I drove my little self to Malibu, arriving before the beach even opened. That time I didn’t look up the time of the sunrise. I arrived at 6 AM sharp, ready to enjoy. I got so cold that after 30 minutes of anxious waiting, I left the beach before the sun broke the horizon at 6:45.

### How to find bottlenecks (and sunrises)

It’s funny, I started this week’s idea with the hope I would write about finding bottlenecks analytically. What I’m finding is that analytics is not enough. The problem is not crunching the numbers harder. The problem is a blindness to important details.

Trying harder does not fix a blind spot. You need a new way of seeing things, you need to step away from the problem. The best way to find a bottleneck is to try something new and strange. Jolt yourself into a new perspective.

How do you change your perspective? What jolts you into a new way of looking at your problems?

## Album of the Week

## Cause of the Week

[https://www.charitynavigator.org/discover-charities/where-to-give/west-afghanistan-earthquake/](https://www.charitynavigator.org/discover-charities/where-to-give/west-afghanistan-earthquake/)

