# 2023-11-04 → 2023-11-11

Knock on wood, I’m hoping that this is a return to my weekly cadence for writing this newsletter. Next up is restoring the weekly cadence to my podcast recording and then finally getting my product reviews up and going again. Thank you for bearing with me and staying patient!

1. [Writing Nonfiction with Wait Buy Why and David Pernell](https://www.brainspodcast.com/episode/writing-nonfiction) - A quick and shameless plug for the Matter Reader here, which allowed me to read the transcript of this podcast rather than listening to it. I first heard of Tim Urban via his hilarious Ted Talk, [“Inside the mind of a master procrastinator.”](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=arj7oStGLkU) He is at least as good of a writer as speaker, which is saying something.

> So when it comes to influencing the world yeah, I think that starting Netflix documentaries, building a big YouTube channel, those are the places to go. But when it comes to meeting people and thinking better, personal blogs are the way to go.

2. [the nfl (taylor’s version)](https://lizplank.substack.com/p/the-nfl-taylors-version) - First, I love Liz Plank’s work. From her newsletter Airplane Mode to her podcast Synced with Monica Padman, I’m a huge fan. Taylor Swift is mind blowing and proof of her dominance is on full display here. So many interesting threads to pull on in this one.

> What happened to male players for a few hours on Sunday, is what female athletes have had to deal with for decades. Sydney Crosby even devoted an entire campaign to draw attention to this glaring inequality in the way reporters address athletes.

3. [Moving Yelp’s Core Business Search to Elasticsearch](https://engineeringblog.yelp.com/2017/06/moving-yelps-core-business-search-to-elasticsearch.html) - I’m indulging my software side a little here. I love migrations as they are difficult and highlight how much tech changes. I’m obsessed with search at the moment and getting a peak underneath the Yelp hood fascinated me.

> We have a large team of developers working constantly on improving the ranking algorithm for the search results. We end up making code pushes to the underlying search ranking algorithm multiple times a day and with the legacy system, each code push took several hours.

4. [The Aftermath of a Massacre is Always the Time to Push for Gun Legislation](https://daringfireball.net/linked/2023/10/27/aftermath) - I’m watching Suits and my head is buzzing with the word leverage. We saw it in the UAW strike, the 2023 off year elections and I hope we see it here. We agree on more than we imagine, it is time our laws reflect the broad support stricter gun control enjoys.

> Our emotional responses to these massacres are valid. Strike while the iron, and our blood, is running hot. Let our emotions fuel the urgency of our attempts to respond with [overwhelmingly popular gun control legislation](https://pro.morningconsult.com/instant-intel/house-gun-legislation-background-checks-polling)…

5. [4 of my favorites from RoW40](https://getmatter.com/email/32613361/?token=32613361%3AexPZ98dCb2cJV8owirRkqAaUUL8) - The ingenuity and innovation here is staggering. I need to set aside time to read about all 40 Rest of World Startups, but these 4 are an impressive set to start.

> Enter Transsion, an upstart Chinese OEM that believed it could do better for Africa’s underserved consumers. They built cameras that picked up darker skin tones correctly, batteries that lasted longer, and unique features like multiple SIM slots to suit how Africans were navigating data costs.

## Books I'm Reading

I just started the Lincoln Highway by Amor Towles. My cousin gave me the book following my breakup and it’s a balm to my souls. Complicated characters dealing with difficult circumstances in graceful ways is strangely thrilling. Towles gets my hats off, this is a great follow up to one of my favorites, A Gentleman in Moscow.

I’m skimming a chunk of books in addition to Lincoln Highway. I’m using my favorite, Switch, to manage a team change at work. Decisive by the same authors is one I can’t wait to start in earnest. I’m not a great decision maker so I can use all the help I can get.

Finally, as a kid I somehow got my hands on the Unthinkable, a book about surviving disasters. I’m reading it now to sharpen my thinking about incident management at work.

## Idea of the Week: Acknowledging Limited Capacity

While visiting my cousin in New York City, she showed me her fitness ring. Like my Apple Watch, it checks a variety of metrics. My favorite feature is the recommendations it makes based on your health. If you’re struggling with a cold (high body temperature), it will recommend you take an easy day. If you slept well and your vitals are strong, it will recommend a workout.

I make the mistake of imagining all my days are the same. You will see me white knuckling it through a similar workload regardless of my health. Just this week, I took a day off to recover from a late night of travel.

Come morning, groggy as I was, I made my way over to my keyboard, 7:30 sharp. I’ve come to believe I made a mistake. I did need a day off. If I’d been wearing my cousins smart ring, it would’ve told me so.

My lesson this week is that not all days are created equal. We can overcome difficult circumstances, like lack of sleep or sickness. But we cannot do it all the time. Our capacity is finite and variable. What I could do last week, I may not be able to replicate this week.

I’m looking forward to a fun, packed week. I did it to myself and I’m struggling to accept my many fun activities will mean I do less than I want to. I don’t have a magic ring to tell me to be gentle, but I’m hoping that by writing these words, I can conjure a little grace for my future self. I wish the same to you. Remember that we can only work with what we’re given. Let us take rest when we need it and surprise ourselves when we don’t this week.

## Album of the Week

[BEFORE LOVE CAME TO KILL US+](https://open.spotify.com/album/6TtJmwgLMiPLePBuso4vay?si=Da9R9zZYTYqvcf6g7a7VLg)

Jessie Reyez was a slow burn for me. Like many of my favorite artists, she started as a feature for me. I would find her name on unfamiliar albums and add them to the queue. I did not check out her actual work until a random afternoon last month.

I’m now hooked. This album in particular is incredible. It’s a journey from sultry highs to melodic lows. I’m so taken with her voice, song writing and self awareness.

## Cause of the Week

[Home - Haiti Needs You](https://haitineedsyou.com/)

Modern medicine is a marvel and Haiti Needs You brings it to Haiti, where there is incredible suffering. It’s worth digging into [Haiti’s history](https://www.thefitzwilliam.com/p/hispaniolas-great-divergence), but their present needs immediate help.

