# 2023-10-09 → 2023-10-23

1. [Who Is Still Inside the Metaverse?](https://nymag.com/intelligencer/article/mark-zuckerberg-metaverse-meta-horizon-worlds.html) - One of the few articles I find a year that is funny enough to share with my brother. I could not help but laugh at the absurdity of this virtual world. Lurking behind the humor is a sad loneliness which is far more revealing.

> Whatever his VR-MILF-hunting secrets are, Impalaexpert isn’t ready to share them. “Think I’ll chill out in the pool for a while,” he says. I watch him cross the bare space till he comes to the blue rectangle that represents the pool. Then his avatar is in the pool, so only his head remains over the surface, gazing unblinkingly back at me.

2. [The Presence Shortage](https://dcgross.com/the-presence-shortage) - It is easy to straw man virtual worlds. The article above is a rare exception, as is this one. I found this a thoughtful consideration of how we humans interact with virtual worlds. Full of thoughtfulness and nuance rather than broad generalizations.

> There is no risk in Zoom. I can close the laptop and the person will disappear. This is why video allows you to see counterparties, but it doesn’t transmit presence. They don’t feel like they’re by your side.

3. [How I exited three companies and became an angel investor](https://www.utahbusiness.com/how-scott-paul-founded-three-companies/) - It is rare successful people are this honest. Most posts about entrepreneurs leave me hopeless about my own dream to start a company. I won’t say this gave me hope, but at least it is real. My many thanks to Scott for his candor.

> I thought I had some kind of Midas touch, but the reality is I just had a lot of hits. Over the next few years, I would wind up swinging and missing more often than not, trying to figure out how to find another company that would sell, or build one―and I’ve had no luck. So it was just a weird period of time that worked out well for me.

4. [The Gentrification of Deposits](https://newsletter.fintechtakes.com/p/gentrification-deposits) - I’m a sucker for a scribbled graph with products laid out along axis. These graphs are like maps for companies, helping me find my way in confusing worlds. Like it or not, banking is important. At least this article makes it (kind of) fun to learn about it!

> Where should I keep my money? For consumers, this is perhaps the most foundational question in financial services. It used to be fairly simple to answer. Unless you were a gold bug or a subscriber to the mattress-as-a-vault philosophy, the answer was a deposit account.

5. [The Lumumba Myth](https://getmatter.com/email/32557012/?token=32557012%3Adl4-lLi4h7H9DlADWcUgGPk-sSU) - I left this article wanting more in the best way possible. An old friend of mine fled the Democratic Republic of the Congo, his family a victim of political violence. It was a real full circle moment to piece together the origins of my friend’s flight started with the deposing of Patrice Lumumba back in 1961.

> The more I learned, the more I realized there was this incredibly rich and tragic story about the country’s traumatic birth as an independent nation. Immediately after independence, the country was plunged into chaos. It was front-page news in the West in 1960 and 1961, only to be forgotten later. And at the center of it was this fascinating character: Patrice Lumumba.

## Idea of the Week: You can do it all, just not at once

The idea of the week is short this week. I am spreading myself too thin. My eyes are larger than my stomach, day in and day out. I’m working to wean myself off the habit. I tell myself what is at best a white lie, “You can do it all, just not at once.” I cannot do it all, not now and not later. But until I can settle into that fact, I can trick myself in the short term.

My ambition calms a hint when I say later rather than never. Does the same work for you? How do you handle ambition?

## Album of the Week

[21 Chump Street - The Musical](https://open.spotify.com/album/5RGnJGlUaM6ef8CWq1NRyO?si=Kxt07ih5TfehXlGUd9s0gw)

## Cause of the Week

I wrote about this in my [thoughts on charity](https://lastweekilearned.com/articles/charity.html), but I’m working to pick a cause each week. I used to be the proud owner of a German Shephard. In his honor I walk dogs at this shelter each week. German Shephards are big dogs. Few people in LA want a big dog. I love this place for looking after the dogs no one wants. A true rescue. Please consider giving a modest amount (I gave $5, every bit counts).

[Westside German Shepherd Rescue](https://sheprescue.org/)

