# 2023-09-02 → 2023-09-09

1. [The Illustrated Children’s Guide to Kubernete by Cloud Native Computing Foundation](https://www.cncf.io/phippy/the-childrens-illustrated-guide-to-kubernetes/) - I'm a little envious of this author for coming up with the "tech concept as children's book" first. Wow is this well done. For those not in tech, skim this as an exercise in breaking down complex topics. The author is a master at work.

> Life was good aboard Captain Kube’s boat. Together with her new friends, Phippy sailed the seas. She had many grand adventures, but most importantly, Phippy had found her home.

2. [The Importance of Learning CSS by Josh Comeau](https://www.joshwcomeau.com/css/the-importance-of-learning-css/) - Ok this one is written for developer's, but I'm going to expand the author's claim to everyone. We all need a [shallow dive](https://spin.atomicobject.com/2021/12/12/shallow-dives-professional-development/) on CSS as it runs so much of the internet we see. CSS is a web primitive that unlocks new worlds. Check it out.

> In my opinion, if we really want to maximize the return on our investment, one of the best things we can focus on is CSS.

3. [Perovskite: Japan’s Hope by Walter James](https://getmatter.com/email/30471161/?token=30471161%3ALdqHAEkTeiLPkcyeuHFLEoae6qI) - There's plenty of reasons to find this article interesting. One is the changing status of Japan in the technology landscape. While still a world leader, I still struggle to grasp what Japan represented to the world in the heyday of companies like Honda. Another is Perovskite in general. I'm more and more obsessed with solar and I might zoom in on Perovskite based on what I learned here. As a plug, you should dig into the publication behind the article, Power Japan. Fascinating stuff.

> This and their light, film-like characteristics make it possible to put them in places where conventional solar panels can’t go, like building walls, window, or the roofs of electric vehicles.

4. [Why the law by James Somers](https://jsomers.net/blog/why-the-law) - I've been sitting on this one for far too long. In the top 10 of reads of the year for me so far. Like learning CSS, knowing a little bit of the law goes a long way. Inspirational and well written, what more can you ask for?

> Like physicists, lawyers can in some sense “see the man behind the curtain,” i.e., they have a privileged, detailed understanding of forces that drive the everyday world we non-physicist non-lawyers take for granted.

5. [The Mechanics of Dolphin Sex by Discover Magazine](https://www.discovermagazine.com/planet-earth/the-mechanics-of-dolphin-sex-all-the-dirty-details-you-need-to-know) - Science is wild folks. Reading this emphasized how little we know about the scary place folks call the ocean. Plus I can't help but giggle when someone's job title is, “research assistant professor at University of Massachusetts and penis inflation expert.”

> Even courtship and mating behaviors are only superficially understood. In most marine mammal species, matings have never been observed because they occur underwater and in remote locations.

## Books I'm Reading

1. Babel by Gaston Dorren - I will be buying this book. In fact I’m pausing my writing to do so now. Ok I’m back. I am so impressed by the sheer amount and variety of info contained here. One of my favorite tidbits so far is the sheer number of loan words from Arabic. Plus the structure of that language is mind blowing. It moved up on my “to learn” list.
2. A War of Witches by Timothy Knab - Still no idea what to think of this one. My one take away so far is a deeper consideration of my dreams. I would love to start dream journaling so if anyone has tips, send them my way.

## Idea of the Week: Wants and Needs

I am a closet Drake listener. As someone who loves to be unique and stand out, I find it embarrassing to say I love Drake. The words barely make their way out of my mouth for the shame. I *did it* (bumped Drake in the car) the other day and felt the cringe deep in my bones.

One of Drake's songs inspired my idea of the week, Wants and Needs. So here I am owning my love of Drake out in the world. I suppose now that I'm committing this to paper, I could have avoided the reference to the title. But here we are.

Why Wants and Needs this week? I think it's hard to acknowledge, but for some of us our wants and needs are scary. Why would someone fear what they want and need? On the surface, it makes zero sense.

And if I'm honest, I would never consciously admit to the habit of concealing wants and needs. It's not something I try to do, but it is something that happens. The only way I've found to reveal it is to ask myself directly what I want and need. For those of us who make our living meeting the needs of others, this question is a foreign one.

I only came across it when listening to I Will Teach You to Be Rich. On the podcast, Ramit Sethi lambasts men who, when asked what they want, say, "Whatever makes my family happy." The first time I heard him come after someone for saying that, it shocked me. What else could you want other than the happiness of others?

When Ramit prodded these men for their own wants and needs, they stumbled. I stumbled along with them. For months now, I've worked to discover what kind of life I want to live, on my own terms. What does my rich life look like?

The picture is still fuzzy, if I'm honest. I'm just scratching the surface and running experiments to figure out what I love, what lights me up. When I look back and think about my cluelessness on this, it strikes me as odd.

Thank goodness it does. I may not have the answers now, but I know that to know others but not yourself is a dangerous thing. I now see my old way of being as driving a car with no owner's manual. Earlier in life, I didn't know what kind of oil kept me running best, what octane of gas I required, or how to detect issues.

We know what it takes to keep a car in working order. We would do well to pay more attention to our own bodies and what makes them run.

## Song of the Newsletter

I picked up what is an annoying habit for my neighbors. I now write with a single song on repeat. I don’t need to worry about skipping songs, I just pick one and go. I’m adding the song I write an article to into all my writing from here on it. This week it was Cloud by Surfaces, a strange band I love. I did not grow tired of it over 30 minutes of writing so that’s a stamp of approval from me.

[Cloud](https://open.spotify.com/track/4H3S0dQ6g8QwacSCp9W156?si=4172254bcec741cd)

