# 2023-10-24 → 2023-11-04

1. [Apple Vision](https://getmatter.com/email/25630762/?token=25630762%3A0i2_gN9cAQqyhSTLO2iAEm3NWkE) - There is a throwaway line in here that blows my mind. The problem of motion sickness plagues 50% of all VR users. Scott Galloway holds this up as one of the (many) reasons he thinks VR will fail. Apple sidestepped this problem with an AR/VR hybrid. I did not fully understand what they pulled off until reading this. Incredible stuff.

> I would absolutely pay for a device to have a huge workspace with me anywhere I go, and while I will reserve judgment until I actually use a Vision Pro, I could see it being better at my desk as well.

2. [Quantum Computing is Real. It Will Simulate the Subamotic World](https://www.flagshippioneering.com/stories/quantum-computing-is-real-its-most-important-application-will-be-simulating-the-subatomic-world) - The long game of VR lives in the quantum world. To simulate with the fidelity we want, the only future is quantum. While that future is exciting, it is far off. Useful quantum is closer than we think. Why? Quantum scales differently. 10 bits of traditional computing hold 1024 pieces of information. 10 quantum bits holds, well, a lot more.

> Exponential power takes hold quickly. Each qubit can represent two states at once, so two qubits can represent four states (22), three qubits can represent eight (23), and so on. Just 64 qubits have the potential to represent 264 states at once: more than 18 billion billion.

3. [A Few Laws of Getting Rich](https://collabfund.com/blog/a-few-laws-of-getting-rich/) - Not what I expected and I’m pleasantly surprised. There aren’t rule for getting rich, but there are rules for the costs of wealth. Well played Morgan. Clickbait, but good.

> Warren Buffett once said that he often hears rich people talk about how dangerous a welfare society is, creating a generation of moochers reliant on food stamps and unemployment benefits. But “these same people are leaving their kids a lifetime supply of food stamps and beyond” he said.

4. [How Costco Convinces Brands to Cannibalize Themselves](https://napkinmath.substack.com/p/how-costco-convinces-brands-to-cannibalize) - I love a deep dive. Costco flies under my radar and after this, I’m making a point to change that. How did they survive the ruthless Targets, Amazons, and Walmarts of the world? I’ll be giving that thought.

> Kirkland’s success defies our intuition and experience. Shouldn’t lower prices lead to lower quality products? How can they offer rock-bottom prices but still have some of the best products around?

5. [Falsehoods programmers believe about the law](https://davekasten.substack.com/p/falsehoods-programmers-believe-about) - The title is great for SEO. But it sells this short and niche. Anyone not in law could learn from this. As a side note, I’m shocked by how much I’ve learned watching 2 seasons of Suits. The article made so much more sense a second time around.

> The law is deterministic.

## Books I'm Reading

I’m reading a couple of history books at the moment. The first is a memoir about pre-Mao China. The era is a black hole in my mind and I’m excited to learn more. The second is a history of all of Russia. From the Kievan Rus of the 800s to now. Russian history is yet another black hole to me, one I’m finding an increasing weakness.

On my shelf are a collection of nonfiction books I hope will change my mind. When I first graduated school, my friend Neil and I read a set of books that changed our minds. I think I found the second set of such books. More updates to come here. The first in the batch is called Decisive by Dan & Cheap who wrote Switch, which I’m coming back to as well.

## Idea of the Week: You are what you can risk

Scott Galloway is one of my favorite podcasters. Why? He brings levity to complicated business ideas. Thanks to him, I learned more about corporate governance than I dreamed to learn. One time he explained his approach and the secret to his popularity.

As an independent personality, he can take risks CNBC can’t. You cannot call Mark Zuckerberg a mendacious fuck on live TV. Scott is able to take risks most pundits can’t. There’s a variety of reasons for his risk tolerance, independent wealth being one of them.

Scott is an anomaly. Let me bring this closer to home. I’m watching Suits. The advantage of young lawyers is they are able to risk their time. Families aren’t waiting at home, time is not running out on them.

One of my work superpowers is my ability to risk my intelligence. For some reason, I don’t give a fuck if people think I look dumb. I risk my intellectual reputation day in and day out, asking stupid questions. My reward? I learn fast and before long the questions start to make sense.

We all differ in our risk profiles. Our biggest strengths lie in the regions where we risk little and others risk much. What do you hold loosely that others hold close? Alternatively, what can’t you risk?

I’ll leave you with the newsletter that got me thinking about all this. Soren, I presume a designer, puts out a few silly designs a week. No one at Apple would ever do this. But Soren does. He’s able to risk looking like a goof. In the process, he comes off as both endearing and sharp. I found his [iOS Roman Empire Edition](https://getmatter.com/email/33948914/?token=33948914%3A-BeA9AhIzPeFTbKDIYUdVmN_bc8) a perfect example of what makes him special.

## Cause of the Week

Nothing here this week, but I’m working on something. I want to take this up a notch, at least for this month.

