# 2023-11-12 → 2023-11-19

1. [5 Rucking Challenges](https://getmatter.com/email/34725814/?token=34725814%3ARD5mPfmpct6ey3UGGQaCLq6jiEs) - I struggle to work out and so I’m always looking for hacks. This is a perfect example of what my professor called function stacking, a fancy word for killing two birds with one stone. The examples here are intense, but the practice is simple. I ruck in the airport with my heavy bag and I feel way better about it than I have any right to.

> For example, I know my cardio is solid, and my legs are strong if I can run up a particularly steep mountain near my house without stopping. But you might consider rucking a certain distance to ensure you’re ready for a big backpacking trip or vacation.

2. [Pricy Pixels](https://getmatter.com/email/32669726/?token=32669726%3A9JcasesGnqv8fBwMC_GJ050VJV4) - We are in the Uber era of AI. Prices will go up from here. It’s hard to see the cost of software, but our pockets will feel it soon. The price will fall over time as we get better at the hardware and software, but buckle up for now.

> “Using [AI] to summarize an email is like getting a Lamborghini to deliver a pizza.”

3. [I was born in Odessa Ukraine](https://botharetrue.substack.com/p/i-was-born-in-odessa-ukraine-d36) - I love being out of sync with the news cycle. The news cycle is fast, real life is slow. War in particular is not well suited to the news cycle for a variety of reasons. I drop this article in here because I think it’s great, but also because the news cycle about the war in Ukraine is fading. The war is no less important now than it was months and months ago.

> My dad often reminds me that Americans don’t understand freedom because it is all we know. Like the David Foster Wallace speech about the two fish where one fish asks the other “morning boys, hows the water?” and the other fish says “what the hell is water??”.

4. [Taste, Conviction, Elon Musk](https://getmatter.com/email/32523108/?token=32523108%3AvoPpa_O8NHR-A2nhDOq64Lh9vtY) - The key quote in this article is the use of taste over A/B tests. A/B testing is great for local optimizations. But to create step changes in an industry, you cannot use A/B testing. A true act of creation is so generative it defies A/B testing. I’m curious about the edges of this idea, but I am already using it to start to imagine startups in a different way.

> I’m thinking about how A/B tests are a kind of mental laziness. You can’t A/B test your way into building Tesla. And I’m thinking about Linear (a product I love and use every day), whose founder recently said they rely on taste and opinions to make decisions.

5. [Why mobile web apps are slow](https://sealedabstract.com/rants/why-mobile-web-apps-are-slow/) - I am indulging myself again. But I will argue my case nonetheless. Mobile phones are such a marvel we sometimes forget their limitations and the sheer amount of innovation that goes into dodging them. Plus, this article is out of date (2013) and it gives much needed context into just how far we’ve come in 10 short years.

> It’s a remarkably efficient architecture as far as CPU time goes, but it achieves that performance essentially at the cost of gobbling as much memory as possible. iOS is not architected to be low-memory–it’s optimized to be fast.

## Idea of the Week: When Inspiration Strikes

This week I’m listening to [Morgan Housel on the Tim Ferriss show](https://open.spotify.com/episode/4wM44uqkqW77hfaptjitUM?si=EHdfMSuEQjmkA-Cg4geJXA). Housel is a writer and investor whose blogs and books impress me. In the podcast, Ferriss and Housel talk shop about writing. There are two insights I’m keen to tease out here.

First, Housel stops everything when inspiration strikes. Cal Newport talks about Adam Grant doing the same. Grant, when inspiration strikes, skips meetings and turns everyone away from his door. I’m beginning to wonder if my strategy is a mistake. When inspiration strikes, I make a note of the idea and move on. The bad part? I almost never get to the idea again. It languishes in my “Writing Ideas” reminders list, never to be seen again.

To change the visibility of ideas, I’m moving from Reminders to Bullet Journaling. My goal is to review the writing ideas page each morning before I sit down to write. Maybe that will revive some of these dormant ideas.

The second interesting point from Ferriss and Housel is writing should be easy. In their experience, when they write with ease, their blogs pop off. When they drag the words from their fingers, no one reads a word. I cannot say this is my experience. I’ve written blogs that I think are crap, dredging each word from the depths, only to find that others love it. I’ve also written like a madman, words flying off my fingers, only to see that post go nowhere.

I’m 300 posts deep now so I trust my experience. But these folks are big dogs, so their thoughts give me pause. I do wonder what my writing would look like if I cared less about the ideas I came up with in the past. The efficiency beast in me wants to write down and cross off every idea I imagine. There’s got to be some degree of “drag” in holding onto all my ideas. I might experiment with a clearing of the list every couple of months. A jubilee of sorts to reset my writing debts.

All this to say, inspiration is finite. It is lightning in a bottle. Thanks to Tim and Morgan, I’m going to treat it that way more going forward. When inspiration strikes, I’m going to write, rather than create a reminder. I’m not sure I will cancel all my meetings like Adam Grant, but maybe one day I will be that bold. In the meantime, happy creating. May the inspiration gods look upon you fondly.

## Album of the Week

[Amethyst](https://open.spotify.com/album/51jD9mF5wg2WMBd4xVeYTi?si=0MoOxkz7QtuRAVwJLoPXmg)

I cannot put my finger on what I love about this EP, but I’ve listened to it an absurd amount in the past two weeks. The song writing is incredible, even as the sound is a little too pop for my taste. I recommend listening to her other albums, as the songwriting is remarkable. Julia probably ghost wrote most of your favorite pop hits. Why not go to the source?

## Cause of the Week

[Charity Navigator - Rating for Everytown for Gun Safety Support Fund](https://www.charitynavigator.org/ein/261598353)

Last week I wrote about the need for our government to reflect the widespread support for better gun safety in our laws. This week I found a way to act on it. Even better, this is a two for one deal. Charity Navigator is a great way to evaluate non profits and offers a convenient and centralized way to donate. I gave $5 because I tell myself that every little bit counts.

