# 2023-09-26 → 2023-10-01

1. [Reinvent the Social Web](https://staltz.com/reinvent-the-social-web.html) - I opt out of most social platforms, so I imagined I understood why. I'm embarrassed to admit I did not understand why until reading this. The first half of this is required reading. I'm skeptical of the second half, the proposed solution.

> Innovation on these platforms is dying. Third party apps are taken down, and there is little diversity in the UI choices. We become passive consumers of UX decisions by the tech giants, and we don’t have any control over newsfeed algorithms.

2. [Using the cloud to scale Etsy](https://martinfowler.com/articles/bottlenecks-of-scaleups/etsy-cloud-scale.html) - One my crusades as a software developer is to help the average person understand tech. An early misconception of mine was that tech made everything easy. Read this to understand why something as conceptually simple as changing the computer you runs things on becomes wildly complex.

> Etsy relied on physical hardware in two data centers, presenting several scaling challenges. With their expected growth, it was apparent that the costs would ramp up quickly. It affected product teams’ agility as they had to plan far in advance for capacity.

3. [Nahko Shares His Truth](https://www.modethemagazine.com/nahko-shares-his-truth) - I know I'm not very "online" but this article cemented it for me. One of my favorite artists underwent tremendous controversy and I had no clue. I'm not sure what to think here. On one hand, I see someone taking some degree of accountability, which is rare. On the other I'm skeptical because that is easy to talk about and hard to do.

> I can bestow one gift upon my daughter it is to help her retain her childlike wonder into adulthood. I’m a big kid and I love to play in the wild beauty of our planet. That playfulness comes from a spirit of curiosity built into my genes, captured by the vastness of our planet, and my insatiable desire to experience all that this world has to offer.

4. [Decisions, In-Person Joy, Mt.  Fuji](https://getmatter.com/email/31838681/?token=31838681%3APrJwu1tNpP1a0tPnhNY19s5JQBY) - First, this is good writing. I love good writing, even if it's about nothing in particular. The good writing here happens to take on the power of place in work with refreshing nuance and care. If nothing else though, just read this for a peek into a fascinating mind.

> Doubling down on physicality is also how I’ve managed to “trick” myself into writing hundreds of thousands of words these past few years on pop-up walks and newsletters. The walking, the moving through the world, the direct interaction with people — it’s as collaborative as anything (even if nobody else knows they’re collaborating). Alone, at home, I’m lazier than a geriatric

1. [Spotify’s New Home Page](https://stratechery.com/2023/spotifys-new-home-page-categorizing-advertising-spotifys-competition-for-discovery/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvc3BvdGlmeXMtbmV3LWhvbWUtcGFnZS1jYXRlZ29yaXppbmctYWR2ZXJ0aXNpbmctc3BvdGlmeXMtY29tcGV0aXRpb24tZm9yLWRpc2NvdmVyeS8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY3ODgwODA2NiwiaWF0IjoxNjY0NDQ2ODk0LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQiLCJzdWIiOiJEeEp2Z0hBM0xhVWpYZW1nWGJWcEpDIiwidXNlIjoiZmVlZCJ9.KQMeda9NNW52GhLK-KHlCiJSZ8VTugEX4YDeBSJsYytUXNVPWAxI9NJLppTAF7JOt641SL7_rpZ2ZIBvWq0jQz2ev9kZ8W5-_AM5_xTSTvzeWivMoW3WO-39jw6mocuHUy0nCbCAb_AKw4Z-PfEmkzTrRo_qij35v8uVLPlNyhSZYfTtlMYhIhpgINP3DYMgrEvHeK6hZ4qFXdwEb4LOzwxfwo7yriWq3e4pt2qp6SLWspxuEdDR__qgWp8Nv595LwL_GJ4F_h3rvM3Uz74WOPgSAiyZsqSW-MbjXGf4_-1-_T4wL9MG4JIJ7oLR7__3mjUVRMDfEtDOSljxV6MJWQ) - I love reading about big brand decisions and this is a huge one. I eschew Tik Tok but I've got to thank them for inspiring Spotify's new music discovery setup. I am listening to more new music than ever before. Fun to see Thompson's sharp mind covering the business impact of that UX decision.

> What was missing was some sort of exploration mode, where I could see what was available and try out a sample; this seems like an obvious addition to the experience.

## Media I’m Consuming

I'm continuing my shift away from writing about books specifically to writing about media more broadly. I'm learning more than I normally do from shows and TV, so I want them to be represented. Someday soon I hope to include podcast content in here, but for now we will keep it simple.

I'm going to write about 3 pieces of media this week:

- Babel No More (The Limits of Language Learning)
- New Amsterdam (How can I help?)
- War of the Witches (Dreams)

#### Babel No More

I am psyched about this book. I recently finished reading Babel, which is about the 20 most popular languages in the world. Great book, highly recommend. Babel No More is less about languages and more about those who learn them. In here, I learned the word hyperpolyglot, which is someone who speaks more than 6 languages.

To be honest, I'm a little let down reading this so far. Not because of the quality of the writing, it's great. More because of the conclusions of the book thus far. They debunk the presence of people who speak 50+ languages "fluently." It's silly, but I rather hoped that with enough work and tricks I could speak somewhere in that ballpark.

The most useful idea I've come across so far is the expansion of my definition of language acquisition. Until pushed, I thought I could define fluency. Yet I'm realizing how complex the definition is. Does reading a language count? What if you can speak it but not write it? What if your abilities are limited to specific settings (business for example)?

The complex reality of language acquisition is cheering me up. I don't have to chase the hopeless definition of "perfect" speech for knowledge of various languages to be useful. I'm discovering language as a tool rather than an abstract goal to be reached.

#### New Amsterdam

There's a simple question the main character asks, "How can I help?" There's something reminiscent of Switch, one of my favorite books, in that question. I would recommend watching this show for a masterclass in how to manage organizational change. Thrilling stuff for a team building nerd like myself.

#### War of the Witches

A strange book, unlike any I've come across before. One of my key takeaways here is the power of dreams. I'm dragging my feet on it, but I want to start keeping a dream journal. I'm not sure how significant dreams are, but I'm hesitant to dismiss them until I know more about my own.

## Idea of the Week: Opposing Action

There's a concept from Alcoholics Anonymous called opposing action that I love. The idea is to change your life, and do the opposite of what you've been doing. The radical nature of opposing action conceals how commonplace it is. To some degree, any change is an act of opposing action.

We don't call it opposing action when we eat healthier. But that is what it is. Instead of eating junk food, you do the opposite and eat vegetables. What I love about the concept of opposing action is that it acknowledges the difficulty of any such change.

When we start eating healthy, it will feel unnatural. We as humans struggle with change. Normal is comfortable and safe, even if it hurts in the long run. The problem with many of our attempts at change is we assume it will be easy.

Eating better is healthier, so we will be motivated, right? We imagine that our motivation will never waver and we will love the change. The truth of the matter is that change is uncomfortable. To a certain degree, it threatens our feeling of safety. Change must be managed with great compassion for ourselves.

All change, even positive change, is experienced as a threat. I grew up with a lot of chaos and drama. Through therapy, I'm working to bring peace to my relationships. You would think I would love that change. But I don't. Without all the drama, my life feels boring.

Even as I know I'll be happier in the long run, I can't resist the temptation to inject chaos into my life. Just as my life calms down, I start a new fling I know won't work out. I feel safer with a little bit of chaos. I'm working to change it, but that's what I know. Changing it, even as it helps my life, is a huge lift.

I guess I write all this to say: be gentle. Change is hard. Change is slow. Best of all, once we finish changing, we forget we've changed. The changed life becomes the new normal. Don't forget to be grateful for the changes you've already made. And be gentle with the changes you are making now.

