# 2023-06-04 → 2023-06-11

1. [Remembering the ‘Iranian Spring’ of 1979](https://www.huffpost.com/entry/iranian-spring-1979_b_6640586) & [The Twilight of the Iranian Revolution](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2020/05/25/the-twilight-of-the-iranian-revolution) - The Middle East has my full attention of late. Iran in particular and its history are gripping. My Uncle sent me some YouTube videos of Tehran and the place is a strange mix of familiar and foreign all wrapped up in a quasi secretive box. These articles unwrap the region a little, hinting at the depths of it.
2. [How to Get Insanely Rich in the Creator Economy](https://blog.nateliason.com/p/get-rich-creator-economy) - I have not read an article like this in years, if ever. A cunning piece of satire that hooked me on dreams of fabulous riches before the crushing realization that comes at the end. Well done, I tip my cap to you Nat Eliason.
3. [The Russian Incursion No One is Talking About](https://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2022/02/russia-creeping-annexation-belarus/622878/) - I'm embarrassed to say I missed this completely. Belarus slipped away while we all watched Ukraine. I'm reminded of John Oliver's Last Week Tonight on the Belarusian dictator, but I was less aware of the democratic reforms and supposed military neutrality of Belarus. The more I learn this is a tragedy we will look back on.
4. [The death of self driving cars is greatly exaggerated](https://www.understandingai.org/p/the-death-of-self-driving-cars-is) - To be honest, it's been years since I devoted serious thought to self driving cars. Yet amid all the hype of web3, 3D printing, and more, the self driving industry is quietly chugging alone. William Gibson said, "The future is already here, it's just not evenly distributed," is right on here. When I visited San Francisco, the sheer number of Waymo cars blew me away. They are coming to the rest of the country more quickly than we imagined.
5. [First Impressions of Vision Pro and VisionOS](https://daringfireball.net/2023/06/first_impressions_of_vision_pro_and_visionos) - I love John Gruber and this post hit me in a way few tech posts do. While I think AI is the winning tech of this era, I'm reconsidering after reading this. Apple knocked it out of the park IMO and reading this gave me chills.

## Books I'm Reading

1. Land - Neil and I just wrapped this one up. While talking about it, I said this isn't a book I will consciously reference, but it's on that will change the way I think about land from here on out. It's hard to succinctly say what this book will change, but there's something fundamental about it. If I had to pick one takeaway, it would be the question, "How much land does one person need?" That feels like the root. What is land for? Who is it for? Those questions will be haunting my mind for a while.
2. Your Money or Your Life - Money and I have a complex relationship. I won't say this book helped simplify it, but it did help me see it with clarity. I've got a ways to go, but I'm thankful for this book. It helped me see that an unconventional life and financial stability can in fact coexist.
3. Anxiously Attached - Few books have wrecked me like this one. If all books were this tender and kind, the world would be a better place. If you struggle with security in relationships, I can't recommend this more highly.
4. The Pale King - I circle David Foster Wallace like a wary vulture. The pickings look good, but I can't tell if his books still bite post mortem. My friend Will finally pulled me down out of the sky to give the prose a try. So far I'm duly impressed by the poetry of his words. Here's to hoping my feeble mind can figure out the themes lurking in the plot.
5. The Secret History - I loved Goldfinch and so far I'm digging this one. To be honest, I'm getting Catcher in the Rye vibes here. I hated Catcher in the Rye, but this feels like what that book could (and should) have been so far.

## Misc

- [Friends](https://grex.substack.com/p/say-hello-to-friends) - I love the idea of old Instagram. In some ways my family recreated it with a Frameo digital photo display. I love sending photos to a few people and I hear that was Instagram in the early days. I'll be trying this one out soon.
- [Web Roulette](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/web-roulette/id6448401688) - When you can take a vice and bring it into the light, I think it's healing. Here the developers take a bad habit (doom scrolling sites) and enshrine it in fun.

## Idea of the Week: There’s no such thing as perfect timing

As I referenced last week, I’m always looking for the smooth life. I go to therapy in hopes I magically solve my problems. I went to couples counseling in hopes it would fix my ailing relationship. I’m not looking for a shortcut, but I am looking for a guarantee.

As I start to move on from my relationship, my grip on the right way to do things is loosening. I realize it should have loosened long ago. I looked for the right way to grieve my grandpa and failed to find it for over a year. I’ve searched for the right way to manage money and the right time to invest it to no avail.

More and more I’m finding just how much time I waste waiting for the right time. I’m always hoping to find some elusive point of readiness. But there is none. Life is unprecedictable and complex. We don’t know what comes next, or how much time we have.

It’s good to be wise, to take our time. But it’s foolish to assume our time is infinite and that we will feel ready. If you were ready for it all, would life even be worth living?

The bush I’m beating around here is that a couple of months after ending an engagement, I’m dating again. All my systems scream at my foolishness. I should wait for therapy and the books to fix me. I should wait till I’m “healed”. There’s wisdom there, no doubt.

But my gut says I’m ready for another one. Part of what I learned in my first relationship is how much joy I get from a relationship. I want another one. It’s bad timing and it’s not the “right way” to do it.

I’ve lived that way long enough though. I’m done second guessing every choice. I might be wrong about my readiness. I will never know unless I try.

While this applies to my admittedly sad love life, I think it applies elsewhere. Are you ready to start the company? Have a kid?

Are you waiting for a legitimate reason or are you just afraid? Sometimes we miss out on what we most want for fear of having it in imperfect circumstances. We assume there’s some day we will have the energy to start that company or raise that child.

There’s responsible things we can do to prep, sure. But most of us are far past that. We’ve done the work, we are just scared.

