# 2023-10-02 → 2023-10-09

1. [What I Won’t Eat](https://asteriskmag.com/issues/2/what-i-won-t-eat) - I love when I read writing that makes me want to think (or write). I want to create my version of this article. I don’t agree with the author but boy was it fun to read through their thinking.

> Second, I’ve tried going full vegan. I stopped. I sometimes have trouble eating enough food, and often a bit of cheese is cheaper and easier and more tempting than anything else. Hopefully, once I’m better-funded or my tastes change, I’ll revisit this compromise and will be approximately at peace with my diet.

2. [The Best Tax System on Earth](https://peoplespolicyproject.substack.com/p/the-best-tax-system-on-earth) - An interesting contrast to the article above. Details a tiny fishing-powered country with an innovative tax structure. Makes me wonder if we could start to implement such a system city by city here. The quote here is a teaser: the results of the system speak for themselves.

> The crisis also partly motivated the establishment of a national bank, the Landsbanki Føroya, which handles the issuance of government debt, monitors financial risks, and maintains a rainy-day investment portfolio equal to 15 percent of GDP. “If there comes a crisis… we have some liquidity to spend and prepare for what to do,”

3. [China Hawks Don’t Understand How Science Advances](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2021/12/china-initiative-intellectual-property-theft/621058/) - I love this more for its broad thoughts on technology than the specific ideas about China. I will be using this a blue print for my own thoughts on the topic. As an aside, I read everything this author puts out. An incredible thinker.

> The most useful technology is not intellectual property in the form of written documents, but the unwritten knowledge in people’s heads.

4. [Cover Story: The Meteoric Metamorphosis of La Monarca Panadería](https://www.laweekly.com/cover-story-the-meteoric-metamorphosis-of-la-monarca-panaderia/) - I’m indebted to La Monarca for introducing me to the delight that is Café De Olla. I wrote [about this place myself](https://lastweekilearned.com/hyper-local/la-monarca.html), but I love this background. An excellent example of the gaps in the market that flawed assumptions create.

> All we ever heard was, ‘Don’t spend a lot of money.’ Our philosophy from the beginning was that’s just not true, nobody likes cheap stuff. People like the best they can afford. If I’m going to bring you a cake, I’m going to buy you the nicest I can afford for my budget. Why should Latinos get pegged for that and the rest of the world deserves something nice?

5. [Friday Finds (Travel, Texts, Messi, Machiavelli)](https://getmatter.com/email/28849599/?token=28849599%3Afq3JiTXb4mV902FrprrvMp-7CeM) - On the surface about how we travel. There are great travel tips here. But more pointedly, this is all about how we experience reality.

> I try to travel with purpose. I now write down questions during the day that I answer in "conversations with GPT" at night. I hire local tour guides, and whenever I find one I like, I invite them to lunch or ask if they're free for a longer tour.

## Books I'm Reading

1. The Nine Cloud Dream by Kim Man-Jung - I am always surprised when an old book turns out to be a page-turner. So far the reading experience reminds me of Jane Eyre. More than many modern books, this one leaves me wanting more. I’m so impressed by the metaphors and symbolism I barely grasp. A wild book in that it both exceeds my grasp and feels approachable.
2. Babel No More by Michael Erard - Still chugging through this one. I feel like the most shocking parts about the true nature of hyper-polyglots are behind me. Now it feels like the author is grasping for straws. Still interesting, but I’m fading fast on this one.
3. How to Not Write Bad by Ben Yagoda - I wish I could absorb this one better. I’m learning lots but I fear I will retain little. Many of these rules I knew already, but others stumped me. The author recommends writing without music and phones. I can give up my phone but I’m not sure about my writing music.
4. The Ruins of Gorlan by John Flanagan - A throwback to my childhood days, this book is as good as I remember. I find myself on the edge of my seat even as I know what will happen. I credit Flanagan for many of my childhood thoughts on creativity and leadership. Great stuff.

## Idea of the Week: An Argument Against Static Balance

When I talk about balance, I speak of it as if my life is a pie chart. To find balance I need to find the magic proportion of activities per day and week. If I exercise 15% of the time, write 10% and sleep 35% my life will be in check. I'm tired of chasing that theoretical balance.

Last month I felt out of balance. I socialized like crazy, spending almost every evening out. The back half of the month found me recovering from overextending myself. In the past, I would beat myself up about this lack of "balance." The more I look at things, the more I realize this is balance.

I felt energetic so I went out. Then I felt tired so I stayed in. I'm learning 2 lessons about balance from this:

- Balance is a long-term, not a short-term concept
- Balance is dynamic

Balance depends on so many factors. Fundamentally, it's a qualitative measure of how well you feel you are handling the various parts of your life. Those parts change and grow and shrink. Constantly. There is no "formula" for balance. If there were, it would be some scary differential equation with 50 variables.

Further, balance is not measured by the day, the week, or even the month. Balance is best measured in seasons. I spent a season focused on a relationship. My life was unbalanced, but for good reason. I was trying to build something important. My life is now focused on exploring and my friends, two parts of my life I neglected on purpose.

It is a different season. Each season on its own is unbalanced, but I can only hope that in the long run, I'm hitting all the right notes. With that analogy, I'm thinking of my life as a band with many members. Not every band member sings the solo on every song. Not every band member even sings. But if I do my job right, that band cranks out some great, balanced songs. That's the goal at least. Stay balanced folks.

