# 2023-08-12 → 2023-08-20

1. [Pakistan’s House Divided](https://www.foreignaffairs.com/pakistan/pakistans-house-divided) - The complicated dynamics of power at play here are as fascinating as they are nerve wracking. What I find interesting is the rise of self styled outsiders all across the world. The trend is a strange mix of hopeful and foreboding, depending on the person and place.

> His rhetoric has occasioned a dramatic reversal of roles. When Khan was prime minister, the PML-N and its allies had painted him as a puppet of the military. Now back in power, the PML-N has completely shed its antimilitary stance. Khan, in turn, has made railing against the military establishment one of his defining mantras.

2. [Niger’s Nigerian Ties, Zimbabwe votes, Jumia’s rocky ride](https://getmatter.com/email/29479971/?token=29479971%3Aomeg27GazJkm5OVQjYwXvAbBm74) - Living in the US makes me blind to our worldwide perception. There is nothing like conflict to bring clarity. I'm fascinated by the regional dynamics here, they are where the scars of colonialism show.

> Whereas attempts to meet the junta leader by officials from the Economic Community of West African States (Ecowas) and the United States were rebuffed last week, visitors from northern Nigeria have been granted access, achieving the deepest engagement with the putschists so far.

3. [Office Hours](https://getmatter.com/email/28431443/?token=28431443%3AaDcWsWEz4NQ9XlkauiUhgHmYu9M) - Reading this, I felt a complacent reader. I'm inspired to read more thoughtfully after reading this. Funny what clear writing can do, even going so far as to make you read better.

> So, learning to be a good reader is a matter of becoming sensitive to the small fluctuations in one’s reading energy while, at the same time, becoming more capable of discerning where and how a sentence makes (or fails to make) its meaning.

4. [Plaid: Finance’s Next Great Network](https://getmatter.com/email/29293195/?token=29293195%3AOs9nZ8qddpljrEaSELadwuwrxF0) - Plaid is a product I love to use. For financial products, that sentence may seem like an oxymoron. The rarity of this company and the intelligence of their founders makes this step behind the curtain a fascinating one.

> For much of its life, Plaid was defined by its extraordinary first product: an API that made it easy for financial products to connect to a consumer’s bank account

5. [249 / What are men for in the modern world](https://getmatter.com/email/28625350/?token=28625350%3ANkVnk2rKyBgMWnKDAccWIgX32Cw) - I wrote about [Barbie](https://lastweekilearned.com/barbie.html) last week and I feel like the movie is asking these fundamental questions. We must call out the toxic implications of modern (and ancient) masculinity. Yet alongside that, we need to start asking questions like these to build a new, better model to follow.

> What are men for in the modern world? What do they look like? Where do they fit? These are social questions but also ones with major political ramifications.

## Books I'm Reading

1. Anxiously Attached - I started this a few months ago and read a few self help books in between. Thank goodness for the delay. I was not ready for this one a few months ago. I hope I’m ready now, this is a good one.
2. Babel - I’m a language nerd and before this book I felt myself flying blind. I love maps and this feels like a quick guide to world languages. I’ve learned more about languages reading this than many hours on Duolingo taught me.
3. The Secret History - The burn on this is slow but worth it. The introduction sets the scene in such a smart way. I keep unfolding the mystery even as the author uses my expectations to surprise me along the way.

## Idea of the Week: Gratitude for the Incomplete

When a dream you cherish disappears, it's tempting to feel anger. The loss of a dream is a type of grief. It is natural to feel anger, but it's not safe to stay there forever.

Often what I find myself doing is moving through anger to forgetfulness. For a long time, I thought forgetting it happened was enough. I wasn't angry any more, right? That's enough.

Yet forgetfulness is a form of numbness and like anesthesia, it only lasts so long. As Andy Mineo says, "If you bury your emotions, you bury them alive. They only come back stronger sometime later in your life." I'm in a period of excavation, digging through the mound of emotions I left behind.

At the same time, I'm trying to avoid digging new holes. I'm trying to learn to hold emotions, even as my fingers itch for a shovel. My north star is holding an emotion until I can find gratitude.

There's a relationship between gratitude and peace. I don't feel either enough to know how they work together. But I know whenever I see one, the other is not far behind.

Gratitude though, is hard. I don't know that we think of it that way. We often say the word without much thought. Thank you rolls of the tongue more times than we can count. When we switch the words around, the meaning comes back. To give thanks.

What does it mean? To give thanks. More and more, I believe there is a sacrifice involved. Why sacrifice? I'm still not sure. I know it more as a feeling than anything else. I suspect it is because all we can give is ourselves. There is nothing else we own. To give thanks then requires to give of yourself, a sacrifice.

If we don't give of ourselves, what are we really giving? Giving without sacrifice must be a form of manipulation. We are giving from someone or something else.

### A Hippie Detour

My final unrelated thought here starts with a story. This weekend I spent with my dog in the mountains and forests of Arizona. The time with him felt like a gift given by the land itself. I felt a welcome and I gave thanks. When we recognize a gift, there's no other response.

I'm sad that when we talk about the environment, stories like this don't come up. I support environmentalism, but I don't find it human enough. We speak of doomsday and we omit our thanks. I wonder if we all gave more thanks, more would change.

What if when talking to the skeptical, we started with their stories? What might we find if we gave people a chance to talk about the lands they love?

We delude ourselves into imagining all our companies and products come from our ingenuity. These are essential ingredients, sure, but at the end of the day none of these are ours to give. They come from a source which is not our own.

When we think deeply, we can recognize the gifts of the earth everywhere. What might change if we railed less against the horrors of capitalism (manifold, yes) and gave thanks for what's been made? We can't change the past. We can't remove the plastic. What if we thanked it instead?

