# 2023-09-10 → 2023-09-17

1. [How to Learn (But Not Master) Any Language in 1 Hour](https://tim.blog/2007/11/07/how-to-learn-but-not-master-any-language-in-1-hour-plus-a-favor/) - I continue to be obsessed with languages and this is just what the doctor ordered. I had a hunch studying grammatical structure might pay off and Feriss laid out the strategy. I'll be studying this one for a while.

> How is it possible to become conversationally fluent in one of these languages in 2-12 months? It starts with deconstructing them, choosing wisely, and abandoning all but a few of them.

2. [Islam in Russia](https://www.aljazeera.com/features/2018/3/7/islam-in-russia) - I am full of misconceptions about and holes in my understanding of Russia. The sheer scale of the former USSR still boggles my mind. In the [article about Japanese nuclear weapons from July](https://nationalinterest.org/blog/reboot/japanese-nuclear-weapons-washington-was-right-stop-it-197040), I wrote about the Asiatic influence of Russia. Here we dig into the Islamic influence on Russia, something I'm still ignorant about. I'll be consulting [Metaphor](https://metaphor.systems/) to learn more.

> Followers of our Prophet Muhammad came to Russia 22 years after he left earthly life.

3. [The most important thing to understand about queues](https://blog.danslimmon.com/2016/08/26/the-most-important-thing-to-understand-about-queues/) - When I first read the quote here about queues, I shuddered at the hyperbole. What a self important claim... Yet I'm now ashamed to admit I'm seeing queues everywhere from my to do list (which I discovered is truly never ending) to the infamous LA traffic.

> Queueing theory lets you reason effectively about an enormous class of diverse systems, all with a tiny number of theorems.

> When a system has steady-state 100% utilization, its queue will grow to infinity. It might shrink over short time scales, but over a sufficiently long time it will grow without bound.

4. [Korean Me](https://getmatter.com/email/30893874/?token=30893874%3APqV3ADrJOB17soN-50pi2KMejpA) - Bobby Hundreds continues to impress me with the quality and vulnerability of his writing. I cannot recommend his blog, Monologue, any more highly. I live right near where Bobby grew up and thus found this particularly enlightening. The tracing of the meteoric rise of Korean culture mixed with personal storytelling makes this a gripping read.

> We were ashamed to pack stinky, fermented foods in our Hanna-Barbera lunch pails, following procedure with PB&J sandwiches instead. When I’d take my white friends to Korean BBQ, they’d pick at the marinated slices of beef with their metal forks and make a face. “What animal is this?” We both knew what they meant.

5. [A Letter to My Newborn Daughter](https://moretothat.com/a-letter-to-my-newborn-daughter/) - I never knew I needed a definition for kindness, but here one lands in my lap that I love. I've been watching Lucifer and I'm finding the parallels between that show and this article fascinating.

> Kindness is what builds friendships. It’s what creates long-lasting partnerships. It is the force that develops trust between you and others, and when it comes to relationships, **trust is everything**.

## Miscellaneous

1. [A car for my mentee, Genice, organized by Jinaabah Showa](https://www.gofundme.com/f/donate-to-help-my-mentee-genice) - Cars are everything, especially in a place like New Mexico. If you've got the funds, please consider helping a friend of a friend get the life changing magic of a car. Until we come up with something better, there is not much more freeing than a car.

## Shows I'm Watching

#### Lucifer

This week I’m taking a detour. I’ve not read much this week. Instead, I spent my night time binge watching the TV show Lucifer. I’ll write more about this at a later time, but there’s one them in the show I want to touch on. Actions speaker louder than words. I’m good with words and I lean on them too often. That is one of the many learnings I will take from my previous relationship. In Lucifer, you see someone who sounds evil, but acts kind.

Watching this as someone whose words are kinder than his actions is a damning act. I am learning a lot from Lucifer, who rarely lets his left hand know what the right is up to. I’m surprised to find it endearingly admirable.

#### Dark

As a lover of Stranger Things and foreign languages, I’m digging this German mystery. It is supernatural without being goofy, smart without being too clever. The characters are deep and complex. I cannot ask for much more from this show.

Best of all? It’s delightfully paced. I always find myself wanting more but I rarely find myself binging the show. It feels more like a good meal than fast food. As much as I love Lucifer, that tends in the other direction.

## Idea of the Week: Meaning and Play

As I'm writing on this, I'm feeling deja vu. I might have written about this before, but here I am again with some degree of an update. As long as I can remember, I've driven myself to exhaustion.

I'm writing this to Non Stop from Hamilton and it feels fitting. I often feel unaccomplished for 25. When I write down my work, I see how funny my faux humility is. In the past 5 years, I've written almost 300 articles, recorded over 100 podcasts, 100 YouTube videos, and started 2 companies. None of these blasted off like I'd hope, so I denigrate my efforts.

The effort itself though is stunning. I am a machine. Age is nipping on my heels, I can feel it creeping up. Today it's 25, tomorrow it will be 30. Someday I hope kids will come. I see my time and focus fading.

I'm no longer able to push myself like I did in my late teens and early twenties. Some of that is the energy refills that used to be built into my life. My output floated on a tide of social relationships and exercise I took for granted. After school, I let those go and my energy went to the wayside.

What I'm recognizing now is that while I don't always see social life and exercise as efficient, they are critical. There is an activation energy associated with these activities, but they give more than they take. Why?

Because they are play. I look down on play. It's not serious enough for me. But a funny thing happens when I allow myself to play (basketball, dance, etc). My energy returns. It does not make sense to my black and white brain, but play is a critical ingredient to my energizer bunny.

I learned play before meaning. When play started to come into my life, I felt the energy return. As my energy came back, it fizzled out in a million directions. Without meaning, my energy felt empty.

Meaning is harder for me to find in part because it's riskier. Play is fun. Meaning is vulnerable. To find meaning, I am digging deep into what matters to me most. I am terrified by the process.

Last week, I took a risk to find meaning and made a LinkedIn post offering to help up and coming software developers. I felt such imposter syndrome with that post, but I fought through it for the sake of meaning. What is all my energy for if it's not headed in the right direction?

Today I tried another shot at meaning. I'm starting to volunteer as a dog walker at a rescue. I cannot describe what dogs mean to me. Growing up, my dog was my best friend. In any social situation, I find the dog before I talk to the people. Finding this shelter is a godsend for me.

I am slow to identify the return on giving. Play feels like an obvious energy gain. Giving and meaning though seem like huge lifts which drain. And they can drain you. But so far I'm finding meaning is yet another battery for this energizer bunny. Stay tuned for my further experiments with it.

