# 2023-07-09 → 2023-07-14

1. [Netflix's New Chapter](https://stratechery.com/2023/netflixs-new-chapter/) - I am nursing a growing obsession with Netflix. First, their offices out here are just stunning. Anyone that can make an office building beautiful is onto something. Second, the sheer odds they competed against are mind blowing. Finally, their tech is just so beautiful and well done. This article only increased by fanboy-ness.

> Carl Icahn, though, who owned a major chunk of Blockbuster and had long feuded with Antioco, finally convinced him to resign that very same quarter; Antioco’s replacement took money away from Total Access and funneled it back to the stores, and Netflix escaped (Hastings would later tell Shane Evangelist, the head of Blockbuster Online, that Blockbuster had Netflix in checkmate). Blockbuster went bankrupt two years later.

2. [How a simple tag helped India save fuel worth $8.4 billion](https://getmatter.com/email/27567441/?token=27567441%3A2yKESf2J2qDKVbdaG-LJeMrspEc) - We need more innovation like this across the world. Simple, efficient, and game changing. I want less block chains and more traffic tags. Let's make it happen folks.

> India made FASTag mandatory for vehicles in February 2021. The tech seamlessly transfers the toll fee from the vehicle owner’s registered e-wallet — such as their Paytm wallet — to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).

3. [Craft](https://paulstamatiou.com/craft/) - I found this article so damn inspiring. In a world dominated by speed and efficiency, it's easy to forget beauty and well-done-ness. Like a good angel, this article is sitting on my shoulder this week, pushing me to make my work just that much more thoughtful.

> Quality products can take your users from "I'm merely using this thing to accomplish a task" to "this is something I love using and I'm telling everyone I know about it."

4. [Thread again](https://web.getmatter.com/entry/32378798) - I'm thankful to Tim Ferriss for introducing me to this blog - it's so clear and thoughtful. Here is the best take on social media I've ever seen. Only new networks win. Social media does not age well. It sounds simple but this principle is so profound.

> It’s simply the youngest of all the major social networks. I’ve always believed that social media’s biggest bug is one that has yet to be acknowledged or addressed by TikTok, Snapchat, Facebook, Instagram or Twitter: Time. None of these apps age well. The longer we use these apps, the more we complain, the less pleasant the experience. Have you ever thought about why? It’s not just the UI/UX flaws, non-chronological feeds, and inability to edit.

5. [People got mad at me for my real estate comments](https://getmatter.com/email/27377652/?token=27377652%3A0zfAqOPG9y0Pxa8zjUt2K3QQaJU) - Buying a home is seen as one of those few, invariably positive decisions. I’ve yet to hear someone catch flack for buying their first home. Yet I am afraid we fail to ask hard questions about home buying. Remit does here.

> Here’s something to think about: I never want to set my life up so ONE FINANCIAL MOVE could ruin me. If 80% of my net worth is in a single illiquid property, that would terrify me! What happens if my house gets flooded? You see this in real estate a lot, especially developers. They’ll be making tons of money every year...and then suddenly, they’re bankrupt. Not for me.

## Books I'm Reading

1. Valley of Amazement by Amy Tan - I’m stunned by this one. It slipped into my top 10 favorite books ever. The build is slow (over 500 pages) but it’s worth it. A well balanced meal, this thing stands the test of the long read with grace and beauty (and plenty of tragedy).
2. The Secret History by Donna Tartt - Man is this one an exciting read. There’s breadcrumbs everywhere. I cannot wait to find out what goes down.
3. F*ck Love by Michael and Sarah Bennett - There is an unfortunate amount of stereotypes strewn throughout this and it’s not even sniffing at inclusivity. That said, it reminds me of Remit’s writing about home buying. I am guilty of getting rose colored glasses in love and this is setting me straight. The best way to get a great relationship is to avoid a bad one.

## Idea of the Week: None

I am bowing out of idea of the week this week. I wrote one draft about boundaries, found it derivative, and tried a few other ideas, none of which stuck. I did publish something of an idea this week, which I will share here: [Why I Batch My Communication](https://lastweekilearned.com/batch-communication.html).

But it didn’t feel like *the* idea of the week. It felt like *an* idea. The article on Craft got me thinking about quality. I write this blog for fun, but I want it to be good. The right mix then, is to keep writing daily and when something good comes along, publish it. But I'm not going to force it if I don't find it.

So no idea of the week. Enjoy less to read and have a wonderful week of learning!

## PS

What did you learn last week? Share in the comments or email me at jimmy dot cerone at gmail dot com. I check my email once a week on Saturdays.

