# 2023-08-06 → 2023-08-11

1. [Some tactics for writing in public](https://jvns.ca/blog/2023/08/07/tactics-for-writing-in-public/) - I've been writing in public for more than 5 years  now and I'm embarrassed by how much I learned from this. Blue flame thinking here with so many practical tips. If you've ever thought about publishing your writing, check this out.

> Often in y blog posts I ask technical questions that I don’t know the answer to (or just mention “I don’t know X…”). This helps people focus their replies a little bit – an obvious comment to make is to provide an answer to the question, or explain the thing I didn’t know!

2. [The monster atomic bomb that was too big to use](https://www.bbc.com/future/article/20170816-the-monster-atomic-bomb-that-was-too-big-to-use) - I still have yet to see Oppenheimer (and won't see it in theaters). I imagine this article gives a similar idea about the horror and awe of nuclear bombs. A wild counterfactual to consider is the usage of this bomb in any capacity.

> The Soviets had built a weapon so powerful that they were unwilling to even test it at its full capacity. And that was only one of the problems with this devastating device.

3. [Do you guys ever think about dying?](https://getmatter.com/email/28667796/?token=28667796%3AGJ6Y6z2GHsHVGVu8Iufwtn5yPMQ) - I do not think about death enough. Reading this woke me up to the fact death is all around me and I'm more numb than unaware. Sometimes it is hard to grasp just how much the world changed in the last 100 years. Reading this helped me put it in perspective.

> Statistically, I’m unsure if there is more Death or less Death or the equal amount of Death, but I do know that we are aware of more people than we’ve ever been in history.

4. [Real-World Engineering Challenges #6: Migrations](https://getmatter.com/email/12787499/?token=12787499%3AAKBhG2ZvWgUWpXiCQ3Gm4gVlPsQ) - It is rare to see behind the curtain of any company. I love this article for pulling back the curtain on mission critical changes at not one but 6 companies. It is icing on the cake to realize that even making digital changes can be as hard as flipping a house.

> In 2020, an infrastructure team at LinkedIn decided to deprecate their backend deployment system. This migration impacted 100+ engineers and 600+ use cases, making the migration unusually complex.

5. [Benedict’s Newsletter #500](https://getmatter.com/email/28279798/?token=28279798%3AtE3IrhM7RjVYbAxmzTELwcXnJks) - Benedict is one of my favorite thinkers. Here he blew my mind about the future of cars. Real blue flame [lever](https://medium.com/jimmy-neil-have-problems/neil-jimmys-philosophy-291571b464e4) style [thinking](https://medium.com/jimmys-ten-cents/life-improvement-seeing-the-forest-and-the-trees-7d06ca597e2a) here. I can now imagine the future of cars and make real predictions about to adapt. Biggest takeaway is that someday I want to work on car software.

> The power-train changes from hundreds of moving parts to a handful, and from a barrier to entry to, mostly, a commodity (in the medium term probably including the battery). In parallel, the software becomes rather more important. Instead of dozens of different systems (ABS, back-up camera etc) bought from different suppliers by different teams and integrated only as switches and lights on the dashboard, all of those systems become simple sensors connected to a single software platform.

## Books I'm Reading

1. Skull Water - I am still slowly working my way through this one. Just got through a particularly disturbing stretch. I find this book to be realistic, which is good, but more intense than I’m used to. I am learning so much about a surprising mix of fields here.
2. Babel - I continue to love this book. I might end up making this part of my permanent collection because of the level of understanding I’m getting here. Language is one of the keys to understanding culture (food & geography being two others). I am hard pressed to find a better tour of the world than this so far.
3. Korean Script Hacking - My language learning journey is always changing. For a while my focus remained on mastering another spoken language. Now I am contemplating a gear switch where I become literate in 5-6 key languages. Then I pick one to learn to speak.
4. Anxiously Attached - I listened this as an audio book but now I’m diving in and workshopping it. Not an easy read, but an important one for anxious folks like me.

## Product Worth Sharing

- [Backstage](https://backstage.io/docs/overview/roadmap#whats-next) - I am still wrapping my head around this offering from Spotify, but I love their tagline: “Backstage restores order to your infrastructure and enables your product teams to ship high-quality code quickly — without compromising autonomy." That's the goal and I'm interested in digging into any tool that purports to help get us there.

## Idea of the Week: Procrastination is emotional

Sometimes I fool myself into thinking I'm a robot or a plant. If I get the right instructions or enough sunlight, I do the right things. It is always a rude awakening to realize I'm human and I've got complex motivations and desires.

One of the more inconvenient realities of being human is the experience of procrastination. From time to time, procrastination grips me. Back in school it was more acute, but it rears it's head from time to time.

With more time to observe it recently, I've learned some things. The most important is that procrastination is never about the task at hand. For me, procrastination is an alert to an unrelated, unresolved emotional problem.

Emotional problems are almost never where I look when I start to procrastinate. I try everything else first. I eat, drink water, stretch, clean, and plan. I do everything I can to stay productive. Yet the solution is always writing or talking about my feelings.

Often, once I write my feelings out I uncover a simple action that resolves the dilemma. Maybe I need to have a conversation with a friend, respond to a text message, or express appreciation. The fix is always small and magical.

Just today I made a faux pas during a Zoom meeting. I got distracted while someone else was talking and my camera was on. I felt terrible for losing my focus and failing to show proper respect. I spent an hour or so trying to work with little success before I got to my feelings.

I wrote on a spare pad of paper about my embarrassment and guilt. The pressure on me eased. Then I recognized I wanted to apologize. So I did. It took all of 30 seconds and afterward I felt like a new man. Conscience clear, I dove back into work with relish.

My experiment for you this week then is to check in with your emotions when procrastinating. What unresolved emotional issue is holding you back? Is there a simple action you can take to ease up the pressure?

Finally, I would love to hear if you disagree with my diagnosis of procrastination. What do you think causes it? What do you do to resolve yours?

