# 2023-12-03 → 2023-12-10

1. [Against an Increasingly User-Hostile Web](https://neustadt.fr/essays/against-a-user-hostile-web/) - While I find this offer self-righteous, they are so talented I am ignoring it. Their summary of the web from its early days to now is one of the most coherent I’ve ever read. A great way to understand the web from start to finish.
2. [I wrote half a million words of fiction last year. Here’s what I learned ](https://www.theofficialwhich.com/blog/i-wrote-half-a-million-words-of-fiction-last-year-heres-what-i-learned)- The scale of this accomplishment by my friend is hard to wrap one’s head around. I’ve been writing every day for months and I’m at 170,000 words this year. So first, hats off to my friend for their commitment and discipline. All that writing paid off, this is one of my favorite reads of this year. Clear, insightful, and helpful. Give this a read.
3. [Roger Federer as Religious Experience](https://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/20/sports/playmagazine/20federer.html) - I’ve wanted to read this, among many other David Foster Wallace works, for a long time. God was it worth it. Wallace breaks every rule of writing yet still manages to sound like he’s using God’s own pen. Even if you know nothing of tennis (as I do), you will love this.
4. [The Case Against Sam Altman](https://getmatter.com/email/35260233/?token=35260233%3AybilsnD7XT-omPt78xvEsSqhxvw) - I am disappointed in many of my mentors for failing to read this. Folks made the OpenAI board sound crazy when in reality, Altman is playing with fire. Not in terms of world-ending AI, but by putting his fingers in way too many pies. The many companies he’s started have worrying conflicts of interest.
5. [America’s Quiet Crackdown on Indian Immigrants](https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/davidnoriega/americas-quiet-crackdown-on-indian-immigrants) - I’m not through reading this one, but I’m still recommending it. The immigration debate is raging and this piece looks at it from an angle we rarely consider. As Liz Cheney (can’t believe I’m quoting her) noted in a podcast with Kara Swisher, we are lucky people are eager to join our country. Immigration hits close to home for me. My family arrived from Italy just before Italian immigration was severely curtailed.

## Books I’m Reading

I am wrapping up my set of books from this month, The Phoenix Project and Decisive. I’m not sure I will ever look at software development the same way after reading the Phoenix Project. It applies lean manufacturing techniques to software. I cannot wait to start to apply the principles to my work and life.

Decisive is another one I cannot wait to stop reading and start applying. I’ve got lots of big decisions coming up (namely where to live). I will need all the help I can get in making them. The biggest takeaway is how much we give to small decisions and how little we give to the most important ones. When it comes to where we work, we go by feel. When it comes to a lawnmower, we break out the spreadsheets. I will need to work to reverse that trend in myself.

I’m starting the dip by Seth Godin this month. I love it. The big theme is when to quit and when to persevere. I’m already using that logic to quit things that aren’t paying off (the podcast) and double down on things that are (YouTube).

## Idea of the Week: Sequential > Parallel

In talking with my friend and the author of, “I wrote half a million words of fiction last year,” I realized an error in my ways. Unlike my friend, I try to do everything I want to all at once. I’m learning a language, writing a newsletter, recording a podcast, creating YouTube content, and trying to write a book. All at once. I’m crazy, I know.

My friend picked one and ran with it. Chatting with her, I realized the power of such focus. It’s a power I lack and would love to have on my side. It means a fair bit of sacrifice and that scares me, if I’m honest. I am afraid that I won’t pick “the right” activity.

I’m afraid I don’t have enough time to do things sequentially. I have an unhealthy fear of death that drives me. To everyone else, it looks like I’m super productive. But internally, I am not trying to be productive. I’m just hyper-aware that every day could be my last.

Another friend of mine blew my mind earlier this week when he asked, “What if I lived a long happy life?” God what a wild thought. What if life would go on? What if I had time to write a book and then create a podcast? What if I could do both, not by doing them both now, but by doing one now and another later?

If all this sounds obvious, it is. I am starting to wake up to the reality that’s been on the edges of my mind for years. The same fear of death that makes me appear productive, keeps me from investing in the most meaningful activities in my life.

The whole “sequential” rather than parallel sounds great, but it still scares me. When I’m scared, I do experiments (or in the words of decisive, I “ooch”). The experiment here will be to cut everything out except for the newsletter and YouTube. I’m going to double down on product reviews on YouTube for the next 2 weeks and see what I think. If I love it, I’ll double down again and go from there. If I don’t, I’ll pick something new to focus on.

What is the one activity you need to or want to focus on right now? What processes and practices are you using to make it happen?

## Album of the Week

[Pink Friday 2](https://open.spotify.com/album/3YOMkR4iUo3bmEIApbWmsa?si=VSCFLtiLTQ2h7xZK6hKd3A)

I am late to Nicki Minaj. This year I dug into her discography for the first time and came away stunned. How had I missed it? Pink Friday 2 is an incredible mix of emotionally resonant and lyrically impressive. The first song, Are You Gone Already, is my favorite so far. It is the second song on the album to bring me to tears, so be warned.

## Cause of the Week

[S.O.A.L.S Media](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/1928168899/soals-media-a-teen-produced-online-publication)

A friend of mine is kicking off a great initiative to help young people create and share their stories. My friend was instrumental in kicking off my own writing journey. I took a trip with his previous company, Startup Island, back in my Sophomore year of college. I’m supporting with my traditional $10 donation and would love it if you could match it!

