# 2023-11-20 → 2023-11-27

1. [iMessage “Auto-Engage” Feature](https://getmatter.com/email/35176701/?token=35176701%3At64EaDTy8qDb8ob9DE1ZwTindrM) - Here is a comical yet practical example of a use case for the AI agents hanging just around the corner. Want to know why OpenAI blew up? Here’s a hint.

> What if there was an ability to “Auto-Engage” with these threads? The simplest permutation of this would probably be automatically matching the behavior of other group participants when a lot of people like, or dislike a message.

2. [Computational Notebooks](https://maggieappleton.com/computational-notebooks) - More and more at work, I’m trying to build interactivity into my documents. In the past, I would paste a bunch of links onto a page. These days, I’m using Arcs share folder feature to add a beautiful sets of links in a pre-organized capsule. The logical extreme of this is computational notebooks, which adapt to live data. Just a reminder here that programming is breaking out of the bounds of the code editor. Imagine a marketing plan with embedded spreadsheets and graphs you can alter yourself. Is that programming? I don’t know. It sounds useful though.

> But rather than typing freeform text, these notebooks are more structured. They're made up of “cells” that each have an input and an output. You type programming syntax into the cell and then “run” it, which compiles the code and produces an output. You can think of each cell as a small, self-contained programme running inline.

3. [The Decline and fall of the British Economy](https://www.worksinprogress.co/issue/the-decline-and-fall-of-britain/) - First, I love articles that bring up theories and debunk them one by one before leading to an unexcpted yet inevitable conclusion. Reading this reminded me of this excellent [article on obesity](https://slimemoldtimemold.com/2021/07/11/a-chemical-hunger-part-ii-current-theories-of-obesity-are-inadequate/). Second, this sharpened my global economics thinking in the same way as Growth by Vaclov Smil in hours less time. I’m impressed and pissed at the same time. I wish I found this article a few years sooner…

> The answer is simple: Competing with America was impossible. The breakthrough technological and organizational advances of the early Second Industrial Revolution revolved around the Chandlerian firm: vertically and horizontally integrated high-throughput mass production. Mass production suited America’s unique factor endowments.

4. [Working with Claire: an unauthorized guide](https://growth.eladgil.com/book/the-role-of-the-ceo/insights-working-with-claire/) - I am racking my brains trying to remember where I first saw an article like this. Wherever I found it, I want to imitate it. Can you imagine a coworker giving you a guide to working with you? It sounds a little dystopian, sure, but it beats figuring all this shit out on your own.

> By the way, I am often overly generous with my time and say yes too often to things. If you see this, please flag it to me.

5. [Authorship](https://getmatter.com/email/29218221/?token=29218221%3ADqs2qGcqIdxnEh2u6W7UwM4eieE) - When a writer connects disparate fields, I love it. When a writer makes an inscrutable topic obvious, I go crazy. This article contains both. Modern media and modern software both suffer from a lack of imagination. Check out Arc for a company that is bringing it back.

> All of the movies, even many of the horrendously bad ones, feel like they’ve been made by people, each lending their own personality and style to the project. It’s not just a question of how the role of the director has today been watered down by the uber-producer, such as Kevin Feige, or how second unit directors now commonly handle all of the action scenes for a blockbuster.

## Books I'm Reading

1. Decisive - I am obsessed with Switch and this book complements it perfectly. If Switch tells you how to create change, Decisive helps you pick which change to push. I’m already working on decision processes the pull right from this book. Yes, this makes me a nerd and I’m fully aware.
2. Lincoln Highway - Wow. I’m not sure how Amor Towles creates such endearing and complex characters, but I’m jealous. Like a Gentleman in Moscow, I find myself reading slower to savor the book.

## Idea of the Week: The Fall of the Unique

I’m back in my hometown for Thanksgiving this week. While I see parts of home peeking out, I’m surprised to find the same chains here as everywhere else. Fishers and everyone seem more and more similar of late. Places grow into each other. There are fewer and fewer local places and more and more “nice” chains.

The nice chains are like a stamp of approval in many ways. It reminds me of the [article about Authorship](https://www.baldurbjarnason.com/2023/authorship/) I revisited the other day. The author argues that movies and software are growing more sanitized and similar. I love the author’s point, but it doesn’t go far enough. It’s not just websites and movies that are getting more corporate and sanitized, it’s cities as well. Everyone is slowly growing into each other.

I find it quite sad. I miss when we were less and more connected. There were times when each place felt distinct. I wonder if I will find that as I travel. I wonder which places will feel familiar and which will feel alien. Flagstaff still has it, that’s a weird place. Santa Fe does, but in a touristy outward-facing way. Colorado Springs doesn’t have it, though the mountains help their case.

New York is New York so in many ways, it is the driver. These big cities push down the line so that folks end up imitating them without even knowing it. Fashion is one thing that I don’t think will normalize because it is so weather-dependent. You can try to look like a Valley Girl in New York but you will pay dearly. Maybe that’s the canary in the coal mine, looking for weird fashion.

If a place still has weird fashion, it is probably still a little weird. It is ironic that the originator of weird, Austin, lost its weird. Austin is now one of the hubs pushing culture out. A little Silicon Valley in Texas. I’ve yet to leave the airport but that is what I hear.

My friend Neil and I dream of going somewhere others haven’t yet. We dream of imprinting our weird on a place. Our idea is to find a tiny town where rent is cheap and set up shop on Main Street. A prime candidate so far is Plymouth, Indiana, home of a festival involving fruit I can’t remember. That or Gallup, where Neil lives now.

We imagine ourselves opening up a co-working space where people can come to learn and test new ideas. We hope these little experiments reverberate, shifting the balance in the favor of weird.

The more I use the word weird, the more I feel it is the wrong one. What I mean to say is unique. I want more places that feel one-of-a-kind and distinctive. I want to go somewhere and feel like I’ll never see this or that again.

Take Disney. Where else in the world can I find actors playing my favorite characters, rides devoted to the movies I love, and replicas of worlds I grew up watching? The reason Disney parks are so valuable is they are unique. Their uniqueness is thanks to Disney’s aggressive IP litigation, but that’s another topic.

In Mating in Captivity, Esther Perrell says the fundamental paradox of relationships is that we want novelty and security in the same place. We can pull it off, but it is a constant battle. We see this paradox in more than just our love lives. I want a job that is exciting and challenging but also stable. I want to see the world, yet also feel at home in a single place. I want to know my neighbors and bring new, cool people into my orbit.

A new book I’m reading gives me some ideas about how to address this paradox. In the words of DJ Khaled, it’s another one from Dan and Chip Heath called Decisive. The concept I’m intrigued by is their approach to risk. For most decisions, we are either too aggressive or too conservative. Their insight is combining the best of each.

We can take aspects of an aggressive strategy and combine them with a more conservative strategy. I’m trying to follow this principle with my own career. I take the risk of writing online balanced with the safety of working as a software engineer.

What does the same choice look like for cities? I don’t know. But I’m thinking about it.

## Cause of the Week

[The Oregon Extension](https://www.oregonextension.org/) is a place near and dear to my heart. It is funny, I do not plan on giving to my alma mater (Hope College), though I think it is a good school. Instead all my education related giving goes to the OE (as we call it). The OE is a home away from home for me and so many others. It is one of those places you take with you wherever you go. I would be honored if you considered supporting the place I call one of my homes.

