# 2023-07-22 → 2023-08-03

1. [Dictator Book Club: Putin](https://astralcodexten.substack.com/p/dictator-book-club-putin) - I just find this quote incredible. I learned so much about the late USSR and early modern Russian regime, including it's former status as a democracy. Layer on the enigmatic character that is Putin and you get a fascinating read.

> “The world’s largest landmass, a land of oil, gas, and nuclear arms, had a new leader, and its business and political elites had no idea who he was.”

2. [Out of the Software Crisis: 31 July, 2023](https://getmatter.com/email/28595529/?token=28595529%3A7i74anaWLpRSt1kQiKVuRPZX0XE) - I found this reframing of the dot com boom striking. I'm not sure if I agree, but this is worth considering. How much of "tech" as we know it is built on the free work of others? What does that mean for innovation?

> From this perspective most VC investments aren’t about creating value but about strip-mining FLOSS projects and communities. The scale is for extraction.

3. [Extraordinary Extradition](https://getmatter.com/email/28642048/?token=28642048%3A4FfYFzRu6_-hLF4DlPR5bTJyDgk) - Tensions between the US and China are rising in a variety of realms of life. The CHIPS Act is an obvious case, an extradition case involve precursors to fentanyl is less so. When you throw Fiji into the mix, things get very interesting (and scary). As a side note, I was not aware precursor chemicals flowed from China to Mexico to any degree, let alone a problematic one.

> One interesting subplot in this fight is how it’s thrusting Fiji’s government into the center of U.S.-China tensions. The country’s prime minister, Sitiveni Rabuka, took office in December and has aggressively moved to distance his country from Beijing, and both the U.S. and China have sought to cultivate influence among the Pacific’s small island nations.

4. [Esther Crawford on Twitter, Before and After Musk](https://daringfireball.net/linked/2023/07/27/crawford-twitter-x) - Elon Musk innovated in the fields said to be the hardest in the world: hardware. The famous VC motto is that hardware is hard. Many assumed that he would thus have great success in the hypothetically less challenging world of social networks (me to some degree included). The quote below explains what is happening at Twitter, but also how to approach hardware and software more generally.

> Software demands more creative discipline than hardware, because so much discipline is baked into the nature of creating hardware. Hardware instills discipline in people; people must instill discipline into software.

5. [Korean Culture: 47 Facts for Those Curious About the Korean People and Life in Korea](https://www.fluentin3months.com/korean-culture/) - In South Korea, assuming someone is younger than they are is an insult. I found this inconceivable coming from the US, where 50 is the new 30. Read the article for more interesting differences between US and South Korean culture.

> So it’s always best to be cautious by speaking and acting as if the other person is older until you know for sure.

## A Fun Thing I Found

[The HTML Review](https://web.getmatter.com/entry/3851005) - An exciting collection of HTML only websites that demonstrate the power of the basics I referenced in my [blurb on Oak](https://oaklang.org/posts/oak-perf-jan-2022/). I love to see small scale back to basics movements like this. The accessibility of them makes seeing them empowering because the result is in reach.

## Books I'm Reading

## Idea of the Week: Always have a back up plan

I do not ask what could go wrong with enough frequency. Thinking about what could go wrong (aka anxiety) is not the same as asking the question. When we worry about the future, we are dissociated to some degree. Our mind is not firing on all cylinders.

The more I learn about psychology, the more I learn about physiology. The body and mind are connected, which sounds obvious. Yet the implications of this connection are varied and misunderstood. Our body is a complex system with dependencies we cannot begin to imagine.

What I find interesting is I've spent my whole life worrying my way out of problems. Yet worrying through things is a dissociative process that disconnects us from our bodies. Worry roots us in the ancient amygdala which thinks in simple, black and white terms.

When we panic, life becomes simple. We run, freeze, or fight. That simple is good in so many situations, even necessary. Yet when thinking about future events, it is not helpful. Worrying about a scenario leads to simplistic solutions to complicated problems.

The same skill that serves us when we must react hinders us when time is on our side. Explicitly asking the question, "What could go wrong?" is a profound shift. At least that is my theory.

My theory is rooted in practice, but is not well proved out yet. I spent the last few weeks working through a huge project at work. I worried like crazy, funneling my nervous energy into action. In the end, my worry failed me.

It's not a guarantee, but had my rational mind been more in the driver's site, I might have caught my mistake. My hope is that by asking the question instead of dancing around it, I can prevent problems going forward.

I can shift my energy from passive worry dissipated through movement to thoughtful inquiry that leads to real solutions. What are these solutions? I think the most effective term is backup plans. What happens when things go wrong?

I love Nassim Taleb's Black Swan and I think that book is fundamentally about this question. How do you plan for the catastrophic? I am tired of letting this question simmer in the background for days on end. I want to move it to the forefront.

I'm not sure how to operationalize it yet. But I'm working on it. I have thoughts in a couple of areas of life. I carry multiple debit cards as backups. My phone is setup with Apple Pay even though I never use it. Lots of backups.

Backups seem excessive. But god are they lifesavers when you need them. The definition of asymmetry right there. Growing up my dad loved backups and I didn't understand it. He had not one, but 2 computers full of downloaded (not streamed) music. He had a hotspot on his phone plus cell service on all his iPads.

Most DJs don't think of that stuff. It's these little details, all the backups, that separate my dad from the pack. He's more than just a DJ, he's a host.

I suppose that's my north star for now. What would a good host do? How would a good host prepare for the worst? It's weird to adopt that mentality at work or in life, but it just might be the difference between disaster and inconvenience.

My last point here is a hopeful one. I think focusing on backup plans can worm us out of the most consequential debates of our time. Living out West, I think of the climate often. I’m sad we are mired in debates about an important issue framed unhelpfully by both sides.

I propose backups as a way out. Thinking about the climate from a national security perspective is simple and clear. What if we lose one of our major pipelines, like Germany did at the start of the War on Ukraine? Renewables can be deployed in a distributed, local first manner. You ever see oil done in that way? Unless you live on an oil field, it’s not possible. Renewable energy (as Puerto Rico is demonstrating) provides an excellent backup plan.

If we can’t agree on whether to go “all in” on renewables, I believe we can at least agree on the strategic value of deploying local first renewables as a backup plan.

