# 2023-08-20 → 2023-09-01

1. [UGH. People who brag about moving to save on taxes](https://getmatter.com/email/30046432/?token=30046432%3AwUlJsSVa00R3gHYZI0hLryJaBUA) - There are a couple things I love about this. First, it forces an encounter with reality. It's easy to talk about taxes in general and hard (but more important) to talk about them in particular. Second, I love the attitude promoted in this article. When we frame our spending as investment, we put skin in the game and act with more integrity.

> You can tell this by asking them this: “Can you tell me under which circumstances you’d be happy to pay more taxes? I’d love specifics.” They will not be able to give them to you. In a democracy, you vote and accept you can’t control every cent. No country would function like that.

2. [What does “Any Distance counts” really mean?](https://anydistance.substack.com/p/what-does-any-distance-counts-really) - A variation on the theme of the above. More and more I'm thinking small and specific. What can I do tomorrow about this? “Shrink the change" from Chip and Dan Heath's excellent book Switch echoed through my head while reading this. As a side note, I saw this principle work for me in health. Post grad I couldn't run a mile without debilitating pain. I started walking a bit a day then and now 3 years later I'm back to running and feeling better than ever.

> Eventually, walking led to running, and running led to a personal journey that changed my life, the impetus for committing to Any Distance.

3. [Photoshop for text](https://stephanango.com/photoshop-for-text) - Tools shape our thoughts. When we use them for a while, they fade into the background and we take them for granted. I loved this article for the reminder about the revolutionary nature of Photoshop and the awareness that text is next.

> Up until now, text editors have been focused on input. The next evolution of text editors will make it easy to alter, summarize and lengthen text.

4. [Why We’re Heading Into the “Perfect Storm” of Startup Closures.](https://getmatter.com/email/29299374/?token=29299374%3Aia5yXC0tPtEA6TyM4t2rEyUtcjE) - I love to understand the rules of a game. During crisis, rules are revealed via the cracks that form. Hunter traces the cracks of the startup world here, surfacing the rules in a simple way.

> Now as the market turns there's no more checks coming for them, no matter how much dry powder is on the sidelines. So think of it this way, we've got startups shutting down in 2022-24 that shouldn't necessarily have made it this far - they're 2017-2021's.

5. [Prison Phones and the Problem with Profits](https://getmatter.com/email/11393074/?token=11393074%3AjURuoHgIJyt1BCH--uNug5yqCsk) - There are a few interesting parts to this article. First, it brings specific attention to a big and complex problem: the prison industrial complex. My brain glazes over when I hear big words like that. Reading this brought the problem into sharp focus. Second, I love to see innovative business structures. Running this company as a not for profit is an interesting approach that I bet we could use across other industries that work with vulnerable populations. Finally, this is a “Switch" style approach to problem solving. The prison industrial complex is thorny, but these founders identified a bright spot (phone calls) and built a targeted solution.

> It’s also a devastating missed opportunity; a 2020 study by the Minnesota Department of Corrections found that “the hazard of recidivism [for an incarcerated person] decreased by 3.1 percent for general reconviction” for every additional video visit they received.

## Books I'm Reading

1. The Secret History by Donna Tartt - Not going to lie, the ending here is a downer. The book remained a page turner throughout, thrilling till the end. I loved reading it, though I’m not sure I can say I loved the book as a whole. A little on the dark side for my taste but worth the read.
2. Babel by Gaston Dorren - I might buy this book and make it part of my permanent collection. One of the most illuminating books I’ve ever read, it is opening the world of languages to me. Pushing me down a path of learning linguistics or the “rules” of languages as a way of learning more of them.
3. A War of Witches by Timothy Knab - I have no clue what to make of this book. Part autobiography, part fiction, all fascinating. I’m fascinated by pre-Colombian culture and this hits the spot. With a dash of the language (Nahuatl), I’m hooked. One interesting note here is that the literature on Aztec and Mayans is so much richer in Spanish. If you want to learn about those cultures, your best bet is googling around in Spanish.

## Idea of the Week: Good as the enemy of great

I remember Andy Mineo saying once that humans love boxes. He was talking about it in the context of his song, Anything But Country. In there, he talks about how one experience led him to write off a whole genre. Why?

Because it's easier to put things in boxes. It's easier to box up our experiences into tidy little segments. Dealing with the unknown is scary and uncertain.

While Andy Mineo talks about this experience with people, I think we see it with decisions as well. Last week my dream apartment in my dream area of LA became available. I went to see it and came away lovestruck. A one bedroom with a living room that doubles as a second bedroom. Separate entrances. Fountains, tiling, the whole 9. Not to mention cheaper than my current digs.

If I wanted to stay in LA, that was the spot to be. That apartment is a place I can see myself in for years. I can imagine myself becoming a part of the community, digging my roots deep.

Yet doubt crept in. I don't rent that apartment unless I'm sure I want to be here long term. If I'm not in LA, I'm not sure where I go. I boxed LA up into a nice, neat package full of great food and fun times.

My LA box is clean and simple. My post LA box is a mess, jumbled with random ideas and scraps of plans. I love the simplicity of staying in LA. It's a good life here.

Therein lies the problem. When I box something as good and compare it to something unboxed, the comparison is unfavorable. My inability to see the complexity of my life in LA and the lack of clarity about my life after complicated my decision.

Once I made the decision (to leave, that is), a funny thing happened. The unknown became clear. Within 20 minutes of making the decision, I'd planned out my next few years. I felt the relief of certainty for the first time in months.

It's unfortunate but we aren't great at holding many ideas in our head. It's this limit that causes our difficulty with contemplating the good and the unknown. Unfortunately, to find the great, we need to turn down the good before we know anything about the great.

We love our boxes and we love them one at a time. I love the phrase, "Burn the boats." There's a complicated history to that quote, but in this context it makes sense. Burning the boats works because of our psychology. We [suck at choices](https://medium.com/p/662882bbcd54). The best way to make them is to shrink them.

To find the great then, burn the good.

