# 2023-07-02 → 2023-07-09

1. [Things worth sharing this week](https://getmatter.com/email/25123000/?token=25123000%3A1BHBTcgfWcMgD0wkO1KY_WZgQB0) - As I work on the design of my website, I find this more and more true. I want it to look a specific way and I'm realizing it will take a long time to find that look. I keep relearning the lesson that creativity is the art of the rough draft.

> It is not difficult to make a work of art, the difficulty lies in being in the right state to do it. Or, in the words of Miles Davis: Man, sometimes it takes a long time to sound like yourself.

2. [Tad Chiang on AI](https://daringfireball.net/linked/2023/06/04/chiang-ai) - In crypto, I spent a long time trying to find coherent takes. I'm now doing the same with AI. Here is one of the most coherent I've seen so far. What do I mean by coherent? I'm referencing explanatory power. Describing AI as high level applied statistics moves it away from magic and acknowledges both it's power and limitation.

> What we have with these LLMs isn’t low-level intelligence but rather high-level applied statistics that creates the powerful illusion of low-level intelligence.

3. [The emergence of the global standard diet](https://getmatter.com/email/25599121/?token=25599121%3AUcwzFCp0SUHRNcIMNiyS28l4XYw) - I find this a great tragedy. The selection pressures of different regions give rise to incredible diversity that fascinates me. To see this shrinking of the world in food (and in language) is troubling. Nassim Taleb of Black Swan fame would call this a fragile move. We would do well to make our food systems more antifragile.

> “Diets have become globally less diverse, but locally more diverse. There is a lot more to choose from in your local supermarket, but it’s the same range of choices as in the local supermarket 5000 miles away.”

4. [The future needs files](https://jenson.org/files/) - I love what I call primitives, ideas you can build on. I never put files in that category, but this article sold me. The design choices of mobile keep us in an unnecessarily restrictive world, I now see.

> For me, it’s a travesty that people don’t understand why files are so powerful and more importantly, how they need to evolve for mobile.

5. [Layoffs](https://alvin.codes/writing/layoffs) - I love actionable articles. In particular, this one takes a fuzzy and scary topic, layoffs, and simplifies it. Better yet, it is accessible to everyone. You don't have to experience a layoff to prepare for one.

> Every time you see a company that looks cool to you, add them in a note somewhere. In the frenzy of the layoff, you probably won’t think of every place you could apply

## Books I'm Reading

1. The Valley of Amazement by Amy Tan
2. The Secret History by Donna Tartt
3. The Pale King by David Foster Wallace

## Idea of the Week: Rest and Play

I struggle to rest. I struggle to slow down. At times it feels like I'm a car stuck in drive. I wonder if the park or neutral just never got installed. The replacement seems to be a total shut down. My engine overheats and I'm forced to spend an awkward night on the side of the road, waiting until my engine cools down.

What's funny about the idea of rest is that it is connected to play in my mind. I don't understand this connection fully, but rest and play, these seeming paradoxes, live like inseparable twins.

When I lose rest in my life, so goes play.

When I lack play, so goes rest.

I'm not yet sure how this works and I'm even less sure what each of these activities truly looks like in my life. But I'm starting to poke at them.

One thing I've noticed about these two is they are sensitive to their environment. These two suckers are the canary in the coal mine of my life. When they start to head for the exits, I know I'm in trouble.

Yet most often, I only know rest and play are gone far after the fact. As it stands right now, they say an Irish goodbye and disappear. I only notice when I make my way around them room and find them absent.

One of my goals right now is to better recognize when these leave, or better yet, when they start eyeing the exit in the first place. Part of the trouble is recognizing what rest and play are in the first place.

If I don't know what they look like, how can I know when they leave?

As a side note, I love that I'm already 3 metaphors deep here. Only I can relate myself to a car, rest and play to twins and canaries and party goers all in 400 words. Love it.

Rest and play can be elusive, wrapped up in disguises. For me, sometimes reading is rest, sometimes it's play and other times it is a destructive coping mechanism. Playing Pokemon, a favorite pastime, can masquerade as well. What starts as play can easily become escape.

The only real tell so far is the effect of the activity. Does it leave me lighter, better equipped to engage? Or does it drain me? These are lagging indicators, which is unhelpful for now. But they are better than nothing.

How do you keep rest and play around? How do you know when they leave?

I have no comment section, so just reach out to me if you know me.

