# 2023-06-24 ⇒ 2023-07-01

- [I should have loved biology](https://jsomers.net/i-should-have-loved-biology/) - I relate on a deep level here. I grew up devouring every book on animals I could find. I spent hours outside, watching the natural world like a young scientist would, mimicking my hero Steve Irwin. Then came school and biology fell to the wayside, victim to more interactive subjects like math or Chemistry. As this article points out, it didn't have to be this way. How many biologists do we lose every year to rote memorization?

> How do you develop a physical understanding of biology? I like pictures. One of my favorite books is called The Machinery of Life, by David Goodsell. It’s full of gorgeous hand-drawn illustrations.

- [Take the Medicine to the White Man](https://harpers.org/archive/2023/06/a-native-american-church-without-native-americans-take-the-medicine-to-the-white-man/) - My relationship with Native America is a complex one. I grew up as many white Americans did, believing a Native American grandmother sat somewhere on my family tree. A DNA test proved this wrong but my fascination stuck around. In college, I read all I could about Native America, sifting through a history few of us are taught. Yet interest is not always clearly benign. I love the tough eyed look this article takes at the line between appreciation and appropriation. A difficult read, but a worthy one.

> We were a group of eight including our two leaders, Linda Stone—a “medicine woman,” she called herself—and her son, Gent, short for Jeff “Gentle Eagle.” Linda, who was seventy-five years old, and white, was sitting cross-legged on a cot. She was short and strong, with a leathery tan and extraordinarily thick, long hair—brown except for two streaks of white framing her face like curtains.

- [Notes on Roadtrips](https://thebrowser.company/values/) - Software, like biology, often feels cold and analytical. The Browser Company is taking a different tact. I love how they bring fun and humanity back into software, both in their blog and their incredible web browser, Arc. This is the kind of internet and tech I think we need more of. Less rockets to Mars and more delightful web portals please.

> A space that’s a bit softer, with less hard edges where software doesn’t even have to feel like software. It can be fun. It can be playful. Both for what it is and what it lets you do. So much so that we can make ourselves feel at home in it.

- [If Software is My Copilot, Who Programmed My Software?](https://sfconservancy.org/blog/2022/feb/03/github-copilot-copyleft-gpl/) - LLMs are black boxes to the nth degree. What's funny about them is they are less black boxes than endless boxes. Even if I could see all that OpenAI trained on, I'd never get through it all. So far, I've succumbed to the complexity and left the origins of the tech alone. This article forced me to think harder about what's going on behind the curtain.

> While activists might quibble about minor details to optimize imagined utopia, this thought experiment shows computer-assisted software authorship does not inherently negate software freedom. Rather, the rules, requirements, and policies that apply will determine whether software freedom is respected.

- [Benedict’s Newsletter](https://getmatter.com/email/25253523/?token=25253523%3A2_NUGWPYl2s0JmnnZLu5Owo_UxI) - Benedict is my go to for the big picture. Here he covers everything from Microsoft to the rising tide that is Nvidia. If you want a quick look at all things AI, look no further.

> The more generally important part of this, I think, is the move to add interface, control and product to the prompt: instead of typing 50 words into a box and waiting to see what you get, there are options and switches to give you some control. Stepping up another level again, I think these kinds of features, like most automation and indeed like Photoshop, will produce more employment, not less: making these kinds of workflows easier and faster will lead to more people doing it.

## Books I'm Reading

1. The Secret History by Donna Tartt - Not only does her name remind me of Jamie Tart, she writes a damn good book. I loved the Goldfinch and I’m already hooked on this one a chapter in.
2. The Valley of Amazement by Amy Tan - Continuing my trend of reading famous authors non-famous books. I love this one so far. It’s emotionally cutting without being depressing, a difficult but human combo.
3. The Pale King by David Foster Wallace - Wallace runs circles around my mediocre mind so far. I’m intrigued but confused. Also notable is the fact I’m reading 3 *fiction* books for the first time in my recent memory. Woohoo.

## Idea of the Week: Gardening for life

Gardening is boring work. You set it up, maintain it, and then wait. Most of the time, what you do seems to make no impact at all. The saying, "Watching grass grow," is an analogy with teeth for a reason.

Not that I don't try to see. I'm growing lemon balm on my balcony and I check it with great expectation each day. Some days I imagine I see growth, but on honest days I can't tell the difference. Only when I remember the seeds I threw in last month do I see the miraculous growth.

Day by day, I notice nothing. Glacial change makes gardening soul sapping work. But the nice thing about gardening is it is realistic work. It is work that mirrors reality. Sometimes, when I play too much Pokemon, I expect the world to mirror games. Speedy, linear growth I can control.

Real life is more like a garden. Haphazard, unexplainable, and uncontrollable. What grew last year might not grow this year. Rain or frost may destroy a season of hard work. Birds may steal your harvest and bugs may sicken it. Gardening reminds us that we are guests on the earth, with less control than we imagine.

Yet even so, we shape the world around us in a million tiny ways that add up. When we water our plants and bring them into the shade, our actions send ripples. Roots take their places, leaves prepare to emerge. Fruit hides in the flowers, waiting to be coaxed out.

I've always loved the saying, "You can do less in a day than you think but more in a month." Lately I've hit a motivational valley. I'm doing all the things I've always wanted, writing daily, going to bed on time, learning languages. I'm healthy and life feels smooth. But I don't yet see the fruit.

So I'm discouraged, even as I'm moving towards the life I want, if slowly. Gardening is, fundamentally, about lag measures. The visual results are delayed by months or even years. The difficulty in connecting my effort with the results leaves me wanting.

I suppose then I write this as a reminder to myself and to you. You won't see the fruit for a while. It will be even longer until you taste it. But it's growing. Even if you can't see it. So take heart and keep watering, weeding, and feeding whatever it is you are growing.

